<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Goods Declaration
Policy Details:
The following returned goods or or part thereof shall be exempted from customs duty:
Article (1)
Returned goods of national origin, which were previously exported in accordance with the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within 3 years from the date of exportation.
b. Must be the same goods, which have been exported under an Export declaration,
which proves their origin, specifications And distinguished marks.
c. Must be returned in the same statement in which they have been exported.
d. Goods, which cannot be distinguished are excluded and shall be subject to Customs duty.
Article (2)
Returned foreign good that are proved to have been previously re- exported in accordance with the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within one year from the date of re-exportation.
b. Due of customs duty have been paid when goods were firstly imported.
c. No refunds have been made at the time of re-exportation.
d. Must be re-exported under a re-exported declaration, which proves their origin, specifications and distinguished marks.
e. Must be the same goods, which have been re-exported and be returned in the same
statement at the time of re-exportation.
f. Goods, which cannot be distinguished, are excluded and shall be subject to Customs duty.
Article (3)
Goods that have been temporarily exported for finishing or repair shall be subject to Customs duty in an amount equivalent to the addition resulting from such finishing or repair according to the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within one year from the data of re-exportation.
b. Due of customs duty have been paid when goods were firstly imported.
c. No refunds have been made at the time of re-exportation.
d. Must be declared on the respective customs declaration that goods are exported or re-exported with the objective of finishing or repair and shall then be returned.
e. Goods, which cannot be distinguished are excluded and shall be subject to customs duty.
This Customs Policy shall come into force as from 1st November 2005
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Customs Seal Requirements and Issuance Procedures
Policy Details:
For the purposes of establishing customs seal specifications and requirement and regulating and controlling customs seal issuance and inventory procedures at Contracts
and Purchase and Cargo Operations Division, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
Customs seal specifications and requirements:
a. Should be manufactured and made up of durable steel or plastic material preventing accidental breakage or damage due to weather conditions.
b. Should be of a shape and size allowing it to be easily visible.
c. Cannot easily be counterfeited or forged.
d. Should bear whatsoever showing its issuance by Dubai Customs.
e. Should bear serial numbers thereon.
f. Should be manufactured in a manner preventing its usage for more than one time.
g. Can easily and swiftly be affixed.
Article ( 2 )
Pursuant to the Administrative decision NO. 23/2009 and subject to the provisions of this policy, the Contracts and Purchase Section shall be responsible for:
a.pursuant customs seal in accordance with the requirement and specifications
contained in Article (1) herein.
b.Establishing rules and regulations for issuance of customs seal to customs departments.
Article ( 3 )
The technical Support department shall ensure that the type of customs seal meets the specifications and requirement set out in article (1) herein.
Article ( 4 )
Cargo Operations department ( sea – land – air ) may issue customs seal to other agencies, which they deem appropriate and shall be responsible for authorizing such
agencies to affix customs seal.
Article ( 5 )
The contracts and purchase section and Cargo Operations departments ( sea- land – air) and the other authorized agencies shall prove handing and taking over of issued
numbers of customs seal under formal documents in conformity with regulations.
Article ( 6 )
Cargo Operations departments ( sea- land – air) shall use the form hereto prior to issuance of customs seal to the concerned officer as to be affixed at inspection centres.
Article ( 7 )
Cargo Operations departments ( sea- land – air)are to initiate and electronic register containing the information existing in the customs seal delivery form to the concerned officer.
Article ( 8 )
a. The other authorized agencies shall send a statement to the Operations department showing information about damaged or lost customs seal with the justifications for
such damage or loss.
b. Cargo Operations departments ( sea- land – air) shall send a statement to the technical Support department containing information about the damaged or lost
customs seal with the justifications for such damage or loss. And the technical support should notify the respective departments accordingly to take the necessary
actions as the case so requires.
c. The Technical Support department shall send a statement containing all information about damage and lost customs seal with the justifications thereof to Customs
investigation department to take the necessary action as the case so requires.
Article ( 9 )
Cargo Operations departments ( sea- land – air)may affix customs seal warehouse needed and as the case so requires against charges to be prescribed by Dubai Customs.
Article ( 10 )
The Contracts and purchase Section and Cargo Operations Division shall be responsible for following – up the execution of whatsoever provision contained herein and implement them
each within the scope of its competence.
Article ( 11 )
This Policy shall come into force as from the date of issue and whatsoever contradicts with the provisions therein shall be revoked.
Date of Issue: 14/01/2010
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Procedures for detainment and referral to detained item section
Policy Details:
For the purposes of regulating and controlling the procedures for seizure and referral of goods to the Detained Item Section. The following procedures shall be observed:
Article (1)
Subject the provision of the policy on “ release of goods prior to completing some customs procedures against financial guarantees” and “ sales of goods by public auction“ . the
customs office shall observe the following procedures when goods are seized:
1. Obtain the approval from the customs office manager or his representative.
2. Inventory the goods and prepare a seizure receipt in accordance with the form
attached hereof.
3. Prepare a seizure report on cases of customs smuggling violations and offences if so require.
Article (2)
The seized goods shall be moved from and to the Detained Section at the customs offices account after reconciling them with the declaration mentioned in the seized goods referral list.
Article (3)
Subject to Para (C) of Article (56) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States in respect to destruction of goods. The Detained Item Section shall destroy the seized
goods in accordance with instructions and procedures thereof.
Article (4)
The Director General may sell the seized or assigned goods to the government Ministries and departments in the country at an amount, which he deems appropriate if so required
or to be assigned without any consideration.
Article (5)
The seized goods shall be sold in accordance with procedure set out in the policy on “sales of goods by public auction”
Article (6)
The Detained Item Section shall verify the offending goods before being transferred to public auction, by reconciling them with those contained in the seized goods referral list sent by the
customs office. A report confirming the state of the goods shall be prepared as well
Article (7)
This Policy shall come into force immediate effect and supersedes any contradicting customs policies and notices.
Date of Issue : 11/06/2009
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Trademark Recording for Customs Purposes
Policy Details:
Article (1)
For the purposes of supporting and facilitating the business of customs intervention and protection of intellectual property right, and making it easy for the Compliance
Management to notify the trademark owner in case of suspending, impounding, confiscating or destroying any shipments with respect to his registered trademark or
any infringement of the same, the Intellectual Property Right section (IPR) shall record trademarks, which are already registered with the competent authority.
Article (2)
A record to be called ’’Trademarks Record’’ shall be established at the Compliance Management for the purposes of entering and archiving data, information and
documents relating to the trademark issued by the competent authority and presented by the trademark owner or his authorized agent.
Article (3)
Trademarks shall be recorded against the payment of administrative fees totaling AED (200) for each trademark class in accordance with WIPO International Classification,
to be collected by IPR Section in return for services and protection rendered to be the trademark owners.
Article (4)
The administrative fees shall be collected upon receipt of documents, completing recording requests and fulfilling the requirements for initiating a
File in the name of the trademark owner. Such fees are irrecoverable even though the request is rejected
Article (5)
IPR Section shall start taking actions in respect with customs intervention in the area of protecting intellectual property rights, once the complaint and report submitted by
the trademark owner is received and examined, follow-up the case of infringement of the trademark against payment of AED (2000) plus AED (5000) as a deposit for covering
inspection, transport and the likely tracking expenses, to be refunded in case the complaint is true and irrecoverable if proved to be not so.
Article (6)
In the event of urgent complaint, the trademark owner shall pay extra fees of AED (500), and if the complaint corresponds with a holiday or the weekend, he shall pay an
additional amount of AED (1000).
Article (7)
Where the complaint proved to be true and the shipment is free of any offending goods, the trademark owner, upon presenting the complaint and report, shall submit an
undertaking to bear all expenses and fees resulting from suspending the shipment in question as well as the charges being imposed on suspending or delaying the conveyors
carrying the shipment including port storage, handling and transport fees or any other expenses or charges thereof
Article (8)
The trademark owner shall bear the charges for laboratory technical testing if the infringement or counterfeiting of the trademark is required to be proved by a technical
and specialty testing.
Article (9)
The defendant owner of the offending shipment or the carrier shall bear transport and destruction expenses if the seized goods proved to be offending, and after a decision of
confiscation and destruction is issued.
Article (10)
This policy shall come into force as from 1 October 2006
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Splitting of Single Consignment
Policy Details:
Pursuant to the provisions of Para (b) to Article (44) of the Common Law of the GCC States in respect with splitting of a single consignment, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
The following words and terms wherever mentioned throughout thus policy. Shall have the meaning hereby assigned for them unless the context otherwise requires:
Single Consignment: mean the goods. Which are imported under a single bill of lading and their ownership belongs to a single owner.
Customs Offices: mean the customer service centers.
Article (2)
A single consignment may be split providing that such splitting does not result in a loss to the customs revenue.
Article (3)
Splitting of a single consignment shall not be approved if such splitting results in a reduction to the value of goods.
Article (4)
Splitting of a single consignment shall not be approved if such splitting results in a reduction to the customs duty rate in the event of classifying the contents of the
consignment on individual basis.
Article (5)
The managers if the customs offices ( customer service centers ) shall be authorized to approve splitting of consignment in accordance with provisions of this policy.
This Policy shall come into force as from :01/01/2009
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Goods Restriction Prohibition and Processing
Policy Details:
In pursuance to the Common Customs Law of the GCC States or any other law or system and for the purposes of applying integrated prohibition procedures to goods entering
or exiting the customs offices of the emirate of Dubai, the following gave been decided:
Article (1)
The following words and terms, wherever mentioned throughout this policy, shall have the meaning hereby assigned for them, unless the context otherwise require:
- Law: means the Common Customs Law of the GCC States.
- Other law or system: means the law and system under which import of goods shall be prohibited restricted or subject to a specific processing.
- Administration: means Dubai Customs.
- Director General: means the director general of Dubai Customs.
- Competent Authorities: means every agency or authority empowered to issue prohibition, restriction and processing decisions.
- Prohibited Goods: means any goods the import or export of which is prohibited by the country based on the provisions of the law or any other law or system in force
in the country.
- Restricted Goods: means those goods the import or export of which is restricted under the provisions of the law or any other law or system in force in the country.
- Goods processing: means the procedure applicable to some goods, which their release requires such procedure to be made by the competent authorities before
being released from the customs office.
The words and terms, wherever not mentioned throughout this policy, the common customs law of the GCC States is the reference of their definitions.
Article (2)
In pursuance to the Article (20), (21), (22), and (23) of the Common Customs law of the GCC States:
a- Land means of transport may not enter or leave the country through the areas where no customs offices exist.
b- Marine means of transport entering the country, irrespective of their load capacity, are prohibited from anchoring in any seaports other than those designated for
receiving them in the emirate of Dubai, excluding the case of sea emergency or force majeure wherein the shipmaster shall immediately notify customs office or
security point of such occurrence.
c- Vessels, loaded with prohibited or restricted goods subject to high rates of duty, of loading capacity less than two hundred marine tons may not enter or get involved
in the shipping activity within the marine customs zone except in circumstances arising from sea emergency or force majeure, in which case the shipmaster shall
promptly notify the nearest customs office or security point of such occurrence.
d- Aircraft departing or arriving in the country may not take off or land at the airports where no customs offices exist unless in cases of force majeure in which case the pilot shall promptly notify nearest customs office or security point of such occurrence.
Article (3)
Prohibition, restriction and processing decisions shall be issued by the Director General or his authorized representative based on the decisions made by the competent authority.
Article (4)
A customs declaration shall be submitted for any goods entering or exiting a customs office, and the goods shall be displayed to the nearest customs office.
Article (5)
Prohibited and restricted goods shall be subject to the following procedures:
Firstly: Prohibited Goods:
a. Subject to combating prohibited goods in general, and narcotics in particular entry and exist of prohibited goods may take place providing that approvals from the
competent authorities are obtained.
b. Prohibited goods for which no approvals from the competent authorities are obtained shall be detained and all necessary legal actions shall be taken against them.
Secondly: Restricted Goods:
a. No restricted goods shall be cleared unless approvals from the competent authorities are obtained
b. Restricted goods for which no approvals from the competent authorities Are obtained shall be detained and all necessary legal actions shall be taken against them.
Thirdly: Goods Processing:
a. Any goods subject to specific procedures, may not be released unless the necessary actions in their respect are taken by competent authorities, and by the approval of
such authorities, the goods shall be released for completing their processing outside the customs offices.
b. If the administration decides that a laboratory testing for the goods must be carried out or when requesting detailed technical documents or on advice of an expert for verifying their
types or specifications, the goods shall not be released unless testing result is received, and the administration shall have the right to release them against a guarantee, which
guarantee that goods cannot be dispensed of until testing result is known.
Article (6)
The department of Customs Tariff Origin shall assume the procedures relating to following-up issue and enforcement of the provisions of the prohibitions, restriction and
processing of goods including the relevant decisions made by competent authorities and settlement of disputes thereof.
Article (7)
This policy shall come into force as from 1st of July 2007
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Stating Containers, Plalettes and Trailers in the Manifest or a Document in place of Manifest
Policy Details:
By virtue of the provisions of Para ( a ) to Article ( 44 ) of the Common Customs Law of the
GCC States regarding number of packages and manifest, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
For the purposes of this policy, the following words shall have the meanings hereby
assigned for them:
Containers: means large boxes equipped with doors or removable sides. They are
equipped with fitting (hooks, rings, castors, etc.) to facilitate handling and securing
on the transporting vehicle. Trains or vessel having a commercial value, of robust
construction and intended to bulk goods including containers designed for transport
of specific type of goods and equipped with fittings enabling to affix seal thereon for
verification of tampering purposes.
Pallets: means boards or decks of wood or metal slightly raised from ground by rafters
for stacking. Consisting of two decks separated by bearers or a single deck supported by
feet and designed essentially for handling by means of fork-lift including crates shaped
palettes having a commercial value and intended to be used repeatedly.
Trailers: means transport vehicles of commercial value having two or more sets of
wheels and a coupling system mounted on the swiveling front which steer the vehicles
and used for the conveyance of materials and goods.
Article (2)
The number of packages by which goods are imported shall be stated details in the
manifest and customs declaration. Whether or not assembled in any way whatsoever.
Article (3)
The number of packages being imported in each container. Trailer or palettes shall be
stated in the manifest as a single unit subject to the following:
A. Stating the number of palettes. Container or trailers in the delivery order manifest
and customs declaration.
B. Attaching a detailed list containing quantity, weight type, marks, numbers and contents of
each package as well as name of goods existing in each container, palettes and trailer.
Article (4)
Notwithstanding the forgoing provisions of Article (3). The status of goods being imported
in containers, palettes or trailer under bills of lading for several persons and for which
the shipping agent issues delivery orders to their owners. Shall be considered.
This Policy shall come into force as from : 01/01/2009
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Release of goods prior to completing some customs procedures against financial guarantees
Policy Details:
Pursuant to the provisions of Article(56, 62/b and 66) of the common customs law of
the GCC States, and For the purposes of facilitating trade movement, simplification of
customs procedures, minimizing clients` costs and expenses, regulating and controlling
all types of declarations. The following have been decided:
Article (1)
Goods may be released prior to completing some customs procedures or before
payment of their customs duties against the guarantees contained herein and according
to the following cases:
a. When a dispute arise with the owner of the goods about the value of goods
b. Where goods are subject to customs offence, smuggling or the like offences.
c. When a dispute arise out from the goods classification or their payable customs duty rates.
d. Until the goods analysis or specifications results come out from the competent agencies.
e. Until an exemption, decision from the competent agencies is issued.
f. When there is dispute over the origin of goods.
Article (2)
For the purposes of release of goods in the cases referred to in this policy. the following
shall be required:
a. Goods in dispute about their value:
1. Shall not be prohibited goods.
2. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained.
3. Samples of the goods shall be temporarily maintained for reference when
necessary; and to be returned to the owner of the goods unless they are
consumed for inspection and analysis purposes.
4. Customs duties shall be paid in accordance with the declared value and any
duties resulting from difference in value in dispute shall be secured by cash,
certified banking cheque or banking guarantee.
b. Where the goods are subject to customs offence, smuggling or the like offences,
they shall be released in accordance with the following conditions:
1. Shall not be prohibited goods.
2. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained.
3. All facts are to be established in a seizure report.
4. All documents supporting the matter are to be maintained.
5. Samples of the goods shall be temporarily maintained for reference when
necessary; and to be returned to the owner of the goods unless they are
consumed for inspection and analysis purposes.
6. Subject to the conditions in respect to the dispute about the value, customs
fines shall be secured by a banking guarantee, cash deposit or certified banking
cheque until a final decision in connection with the customs matter is issued.
c.Where the goods in dispute about their classification or customs duty rates:
1. Shall not be prohibited goods.
2. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained.
3. Samples of the goods shall be temporarily maintained for reference when
necessary; and to be returned to the owner of the goods unless they are
consumed for inspection and analysis purposes.
4.Catalogues and bulletins shall be retained as the case so requires.
5.Customs duties shall be secured in accordance with the higher proposed rate.
d.Until the goods analysis and specifications results come out or an exemption
decision from the competent agencies is issued:
1. Shall not be prohibited goods.
2. The purpose of the goods analysis shall not be deciding upon whether the
goods are prohibited or restricted.
3. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained.
4. Customs duties shall be secured by a cash deposit, certified banking cheque or
banking guarantee until the goods analysis or specification come out.
e.	 Until the goods analysis and specifications results come out or an exemption
decision from the competent agencies is issued:
1. Shall not be prohibited goods.
2. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained.
3. Securing Customs duties by a cash deposit, certified cheque or banking
guarantee until an exemption decision is issued from the competent agency
is issued providing that the date of the exemption decision shall not exceed 60
days from the of the customs declaration.
f. When goods in dispute about origin:
1. Obtaining approval from Customs Tariff and origin department for the release
of goods.
2. Shall not be prohibited goods
3. Restricted goods cannot be released unless the approval of the competent
agency is obtained
4. samples of the goods shall be temporarily maintained for reference when
necessary; and to be returned to the owner of the goods unless they are
consumed for inspection and analysis purposes.
5. An undertaking shall be produced to ensure that goods are disposed of until
final decision in their respect is issued from the department of Customs Tariff
and Origin.
6. Securing customs duties and fines once are payable by a banking guarantee,
cash deposit or a certified cheque until a decision in their respect is issued.
Article (3)
In the event of default of payment of customs duties and/or fines after the final decisions
are issued and the owners of the goods or their representatives or authorized person
have been notified of such decisions, all legal procedures shall be taken to collect the
properties of the treasury as the case so requires.
Article (4)
Guarantees provided for the aforementioned cases shall be refunded or collected after
all required procedures are finalized or a decision in respect with the matter is issued by
the competent department and in accordance with the applicable procedures.
Article (5)
Managers of the Customs centers and other managers of the respective departments
are authorized to implement this policy each within his scope of competence.
Article (6)
This policy shall come into force as from 07/03/2010
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Mechanism for Determining the Value of Passengers and Cargo Transport Vehicles
Policy details:
Pursuant to the Agreement on Customs Valuation that derived from the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the decisions thereof; and the relative
provisions provided for in the Common Customs Law, the value of the new and used
imported vehicles including their depreciation percentages shall be determined for
customs purposes in accordance with the following rules:
Article (1)
New imported Cargo and Passengers Transport Vehicles model the year of clearing
or the following year:
The value of new imported cargo and passengers transport vehicles shall be determined
for customs purposes in accordance with the following:
A. The total values and costs being paid as a price for the importation of such articles up
to their delivery at the GCC borders shall be calculated including, within the concept
of CIF, charges and cost of international freight and insurance, handling and unloading
expenses at the first point of transit of any GCC State; when importers declare the
values and costs of the importation of such articles under proper commercial invoices
and buying contracts issued by the production or export companies.
B. The values of previously imported identical or similar articles under proper
commercial invoices and buying contracts shall be accepted to determine the value
of such articles when being imported by individuals, show rooms or commercial
companies to which the terms and arrangements for trade contracts of import
transactions are not available or when doubt about the authenticity of values, invoices
and trade contracts arises.
Article (2)
Imported Used Cargo and Passengers Transport Vehicles Produced in the year of
Clearing or the forgoing years.
The value of imported used cargo and passengers transport vehicles shall be
determined on the basis of previously accepted values of identical or similar articles
after deducting the depreciation and prescription percentages in the years of production
and in accordance with the list attached herein regarding the deduction percentages.
Article (3)
The rules set out in the attached list herein in connection with the deduction percentages
shall be applicable to the new imported vehicles being produced in the year that preceding
the year of clearing and where the terms of trade transactions are not fulfilled.
Article (4)
When determining the value in accordance with previously accepted identical or similar
articles, the value shall be based on values of identical articles in the first instance and
if such values are not available, the value shall be determined in accordance with the
values of similar articles.
Article (5)
Subject to provisions of the Common Customs law and where damages in respect to
the vehicles bodies are found, the deduction percentage referred to in Article (2) of
this Policy may be increased providing that a report approved by the Customs Office
Manager or his representative detailing reasons, statement and cost estimate of the
damages is presented.
Article (6)
The old vehicles that deemed to be “classic” shall be excluded from such rules and
their value shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article (26) of the
Common Customs Law and the Rules of Implementation thereof.
Article (7)
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article (26) of the Common Customs Law and
Rules of Implementation thereof, the rules contained herein shall be applicable.
Article (8)
The determined value of the articles specified in the attached list herein shall not be
less than 20% of the previously accepted values or the similar articles (in the year of
clearing) irrespective to the prescription of the production years that preceding the year
of clearing except for cases provided for in Article (5) herein.
Article (9)
The Customs Valuation Department shall monitor the implementation of this policy and
follow-up the procedures thereof.
This Policy shall come into force as from : 09/07/2008
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Valuation of Carrier Media Bearing Software for Data Processing Equipment
Policy Details:
Implementing Article (26) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States:
Taking into account Para (2) of the Decision No. (4.1) adopted by WTO Committee on
customs Valuation the customs value of imported carrier media, whether or not bearing
data or software, shall be determined as follows:
Article (1)
For the purpose of the policy, the expression ’’ carrier media’’ shall not be taken to
include integrated circuits or devices, the expression “data or instructions’’ shall not be
taken to include sound, cinema or video recordings.
Article (2)
The customs value of imported carrier media bearing data or instructions, shall be
determined by calculating the cost or value of the carrier itself, provided that the cost
or value of data or instructions is distinguished from value or cost of the carrier media.
Article (3)
Where the cost or value of imported carrier media includes cost or value of data
or instructions, the customs value of the imported carrier media bearing data or
instructions shall be determined by calculating the customs value of identical or similar
carrier media, without taking into account the cost or value of data or instructions
recorded therein.
Article (4)
The Department of Customs Valuation shall monitor the implementation of this policy at
Customs administrations and centers.
Article (5)
This policy shall come into force as from 17th June 2006 and all respective administrations
are to implement it each within its scope of competence.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Implementation of Agreement on Customs Valuation
Policy details:
Pursuant to articles (26), (27),(28),(61),(62) and (127) of the Common customs law of the
GCC States and the Agreement on implementation of Article VII of GATT 94, it has been
decided that imported goods shall be valued for the customs purposes as following:
Article (1)
The following words and terms shall have the meanings hereby assigned for them,
unless the context otherwise requires:
- State: Means the United Arabs Emirates.
- GCC: Means Gulf States of Cooperation Council.
- Administration: Means Dubai Customs.
- Department: Means Customs Valuation Department.
- Manager: Means Manager of Customs Valuation Department.
- Customs Centre: Means any customs center directly reporting to the Administration
and authorized to complete all customs formalities.
- Customs Value: Means the approved value for imported goods for the purposes of
collecting customs duties in accordance with the provisions of the common customs
law of the GCC States.
Article (2)
Customs Value
A. The Customs Value of goods being imported through Dubai borders Shall be calculated
by adding the following costs and expenses:
1. The transaction value, that is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when
sold to GCC countries.
2. The costs, which must be added if not included in the price Actually paid or payable
are as follows:
• Commissions and brokerages, except buying commissions.
• The cost of containers, which are treated as one with goods in question.
• The cost of packing whether for labour or materials.
• The value apportioned as appropriate of goods and services supplied by the
buyer.
• Royalties and license fees related to the goods being valued that the buyer
must pay.
• The value of any proceeds of any subsequent resale, disposal or use of the
imported goods that accrues directly or indirectly to the seller.
• The cost of transport of the imported goods to the borders of GCC States.
• Loading, unloading, handling and insurance charges to the borders of GCC States.
3 .No additions shall be made to the price actually paid or Payable in determining the transaction value except as Provided for in the sub-parts (1) & (2) of part (a) to this Article.
B. The price actually paid or payable for goods when sold to GCC States shall be accepted
providing that:
1. There are no restrictions as to disposition or use of the goods by the buyer other
than restrictions, which do not substantially affect the value of goods or limit the
geographical area in which the goods may be resold.
2. The sale or price is not subject to same condition or consideration for which a value
cannot be determined with respect to the goods being valued.
3. No parts of the proceeds of any subsequent resale, Disposal or use of the goods by
the buyer accrue Directly or indirectly to the seller.
4. The buyer and seller are not related.
C. Where the buyer and seller are related, the price actually paid or payable for goods shall
be accepted providing that:
1. The relationship did not influence the price actually paid or Payable.
2. The importer demonstrates that such value closely approximates to the transaction
value in sales to unrelated buyers or sellers of identical or similar goods for export
to GCC States at the time of importation or so.
D. If, in the light of information provided by the importer or otherwise, the administration
has the grounds for considering that the relationship influenced the price, it shall
communicate its grounds to the importer and the importer shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to respond.
E. The Administration is empowered to doubt about the presented documents and price if
there are reasonable grounds for such doubt, despite the conformity of the provisions set
out in part (b) of this Article.
F. The importer has the right in requesting verbally or in writing the reasons for doubts
about the presented documents and price and shall be given a reasonable opportunity by
the administration to respond.
G. In case the importer fails to present the evidence acceptable by the Administration
within the given period, the goods being valued shall be assessed in accordance with the
provisions of the following Articles to this policy.
Article (3)
A. Under the provisions of this Article, Customs value shall be determined using one of the
following methods:
1. The lowest value of identical goods sold for export to GCC States and exported at or
about the same time as the goods being valued at the same commercial level and in
substantially approximate quantities.
2. The lowest value of similar goods sold for export to GCC States and exported at or
about the same time as the goods being valued at the same commercial level and in substantially the same quantities.
3. The sale price prevailing in GCC markets of imported goods or identical or similar
imported goods are so sold in the greatest aggregate quantity, at or about the time
of the importation of the goods being valued, to persons who are not related to the
persons from whom they buy such goods, subject to deductions for the following:
• The commissions usually paid or agreed to be paid and the additions usually
made for profit and general expenses in connection sales of goods of the same
class or kind.
• The usual cost of transport and insurance and associated costs incurred within
GCC States for the goods being valued, identical or similar goods.
• The customs and other national taxes payable by reason of the importation or
sale of the goods.
4. The computed value of goods sold for export to GCC States, which consists of the
sum of:
• The cost or value of materials and fabrication or other processing employed in
producing the imported goods being valued.
• An amount of profit and general expenses equal to that usually reflected in
sales of goods, which are made by producers for export to GCC countries.
• Loading, unloading, handing and insurance charges associated with the
transport of goods to GCC borders.
B. The customs value shall be determined under the provisions of this Article according
to the order shown therein and by applying methods successively until determine the
customs value in accordance with the first possible method. At the request of the importer,
the order of application of parts (4) and (3) of this Article may be reserved.
Article (4)
A. If the customs value of the imported goods cannot be determined under The provisions
of Articles (2) and (3), the customs value shall be determined Using reasonable means on
the basis of:
1. The selling price of goods produced in GCC states.
2. The price of the goods on the domestic market of the country of exportation.
3. The price of the goods for export to a country other than GCC states.
4. The higher value of two alternative values.
5. Minimum customs values.
6. The cost of other than computed values, which have been determined for identical
or similar goods in accordance with the provisions of Para (4) ofArticle (3).
7. Arbitrary or fictitious values.
B. If the importer so requests, the importer shall be informed in writing of the customs
value determined and methods used to determine such value in accordance with the
Article (5)
A. The customs value of the exported goods shall be determined by calculating the
sale or estimated value of such goods according to their condition at or about the
time of registering the appropriate customs declarations plus cost of transport to
GCC borders.
B. The value of exported goods does not include taxes and customs duties, which are
refunded upon exportation.
Article (6)
A.For the purposes of proving the accuracy of the price paid or payable, the importer of his
representative must:
1. Present attested original commercial invoice proving accuracy of price of the
imported goods.
2. Submit a bill of lading and export and re-export customs declarations for the
imported goods.
3. Show the method of payment of the value of the imported goods and produce the
supporting banking documentary credits and financial receipts if the customs
officers request so
4. If the customs officers request so, present letters, commercial Contracts and pro
forma invoices relating to the imported Goods.
5. Write the commodity kind in Arabic, in compliance with the Customs tariff, on
invoices issued in foreign language if the Customs officers request so.
B. Failure to submit or produce original copies of the foregoing documents shall be
deemed as reasonable ground to doubt about the accuracy of the presents documents,
information and price.
Article (7)
The department shall monitor and implement this policy and issue business directories,
rules of implementation and explanatory notes.
This Customs Policy shall come into force as from 1st February 2006
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Returned Goods
Policy Details:
The following returned goods or or part thereof shall be exempted from customs duty:
Article (1)
Returned goods of national origin, which were previously exported in accordance
with the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within 3 years from the date of exportation.
b. Must be the same goods, which have been exported under an Export declaration,
which proves their origin, specifications And distinguished marks.
c. Must be returned in the same statement in which they have been exported.
d. Goods, which cannot be distinguished are excluded and shall be subject to Customs duty.
Article (2)
Returned foreign good that are proved to have been previously re- exported in
accordance with the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within one year from the date of re-exportation.
b. Due of customs duty have been paid when goods were firstly imported.
c. No refunds have been made at the time of re-exportation.
d. Must be re-exported under a re-exported declaration, which proves their origin,
specifications and distinguished marks.
e. Must be the same goods, which have been re-exported and be returned in the same
statement at the time of re-exportation.
f. Goods, which cannot be distinguished, are excluded and shall be subject to Customs duty.
Article (3)
Goods that have been temporarily exported for finishing or repair shall be subject to
Customs duty in an amount equivalent to the addition resulting from such finishing or
repair according to the following requirements:
a. Must be returned within one year from the data of re-exportation.
b. Due of customs duty have been paid when goods were firstly imported.
c. No refunds have been made at the time of re-exportation.
d. Must be declared on the respective customs declaration that goods are exported or
re-exported with the objective of finishing or repair and shall then be returned.
e. Goods, which cannot be distinguished are excluded and shall be subject to customs duty.
This Customs Policy shall come into force as from 1st November 2005.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Conditions and Controls for exempting Personal Effects and Household Items
Policy Details:
The personal effects and used household items brought into the country by the national
residing abroad and foreigners coming for the first time for residence in the country
shall be exempted from customs duty in accordance with the following:
Article (1)
The following categories shall benefit from such exemption:
1. Nationals residing abroad upon their final return to reside in the country.
2. Foreigners coming for the first time for residence in the country.
Article (2)
Exemption shall be subject to the following conditions and controls:
1. The personal effects and household items must be used items.
2. Present a proof showing residence abroad.
3. Present a proof showing work and residence in the country for foreigners.
4. The personal effects and household items must be brought into the country in the
name of the national residing abroad.
5. The personal effects and household items must be brought into the country in the
name of the foreigner intending to reside in the country.
6. The personal effects and household items must be in quantities and numbers that fit
with furnishing a house.
7. The exemption requester shall submit a packing list showing the full contents.
Article (3)
1. Branch Operations and customs Centers are authorized to approve the exemption
taking into account all necessary facilitations that speed up clearance of such
personal effects and household items in accordance with the foregoing conditions
and controls.
2. Any cases of disputes or clear incompliance with the aforementioned conditions and
controls shall be referred to customs Tariff and Origin Department for settlement.
3. New personal effects and household items are not exempted and their customs duty
shall be collected in accordance with the customs law provisions and tariff.
4. Customs declarations for such cases shall be excluded from the attachment of
commercial invoices and certificates of origin.
Article (4)
This Customs policy shall come into force as from 1st March 2006.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Terms and Controls of Diplomatic Exemptions
Policy details:
Article (1)
Pursuant to the provisions of the Common Customs law of the GCC States and subject to
Article (99, 100 and 101) of the same law:
Imports of diplomatic corps, consulates, international organizations and the members
of the diplomatic and consular corps accredited by the government according to the
international agreements, laws and orders in force.
Article (2)
Diplomatic exemptions are subject to the following terms and controls:
1. An exemption request from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be presented in
accordance with rules in force thereat.
2. The exempted goods may not be disposed of or abandoned for a purpose other than
that for which they have been exempted unless after notifying the Administrations of
the payment of the due customs duties.
3. Customs duties are not to be levied if the beneficiary has disposed of the goods after three
years from the date released by the Customs office provided that reciprocity basis is available.
4. Subject to Article (2) herein, exempted vehicles “cars” may not be disposed of before
the elapse of three years following the exemption date excluding the following cases:
a. Termination of the mission of the diplomatic or consular member benefiting from
exemption in the country.
B. The occurrence of an accident to the exempted car which makes it unfit for use of
the diplomatic or consular member based on a report from the Traffic Department.
C. The sale by one diplomatic or consular member to another member provided
that the assignee shall be entitled to the right of exemption.
Article (3)
The right of exemption for the individuals benefiting from it shall begin from the date of
commencing their jobs at their official places of work in the country.
Article (4)
Subject to the terms and controls specified in Article (2) herein, the goods shall be
cleared under the following procedures:
1. Submit a customs declaration accompanied with an exemption request from the
competent agency.
2. The goods shall be excluded from the provision of proving the origin.
3. Customs Centers Administrations shall be authorized to approve diplomatic
exemptions set out in Article (99) of the law.
4. Subject to the terms and controls of diplomatic exemption, all necessary facilitations
for customs clearing shall be delivered.
Article (5)
This policy shall come into force as from 19/3/2008
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Public Customs Warehouses
Policy details:
Pursuant to Article (74),(75) and (76) of the Common law of the GCC States. it has been decided to set
up the following terms and conditions that regulate the establishment of public customs warehouse.
Article (1)
The following words and terms, wherever mentioned throughout this policy, shall have
the meanings hereby assigned for them unless the context otherwise requires:
- Public warehouse: means the building or place where goods are deposited under
Customs Administration control and their customs duties are suspended against the
prescribed service charges that to be paid by the investing body.
- Investing body: Means the department, organization or any natural person or
corporate body responsible, under customs administration. For depositing the
goods and ensuring safety of those belonging to importers against the prescribed
service charge.
-	 Competent Customs Office: means the customs centers ( Customer services centers
or of customs procedures for goods deposited therein are authorized.
- Customs Warehouse licensing department: means the department of customs tariff
and origin.
- Customs warehouse operator: means the person or persons being appointed by the
investing body as warehouse operators and whose names are formally reported to
the licensing department.
- Deposit declaration: means the customs declaration being prepared for depositing
the goods in customs warehouse in accordance with Article (47) of the Common
Customs Law.
-	 Exit Declaration: means the customs declaration that being prepared for taking out
the goods from customs warehouse in accordance with Article ( 47) of the Common
Customs Law.
Article (2)
a. For the purposes of licensing public customs warehouse. The following terms and
conditions are required:
1. Submit a request according to the prescribed from duly completed with all
information therein.
2. Public customs warehouse shall be surrounded by a fence from all directions
having main private entrances with doors that can be closed.
3. Public warehouse should have yards where customs procedures can be completed.
4. When the investing body requests for depositing goods of special nature, the
public customs warehouse shall then specially be designed for depositing
goods according to their nature and storage requirements ( as it being fitted
with refrigerated areas etc.).
5. Present all necessary licenses from the competent authorities for constructing
the buildings and implementing the project.
6. The investing body must be registered with Dubai Department of Economic Development 
7. Public Customs warehouse shall be fitted with all services and general safety
equipment in accordance with the instructions from Dubai Municipality, Dubai
Civil Defense and other relevant agencies.
b. Upon a written request and the approval of the licensing department, the public
customs warehouse or installations therein may be expanded or amended by increase
or removal providing that either of the respective terms and conditions is observed
pursuant to Para (a) of this Article and the case so requires.
c. The warehouse licensing department shall determine the competent customs office
that would be controlling the warehouse.
Article (3)
a. The investing body shall, prior to starting operations, Submit a bank or cash guarantee
not less than AED Million (1.5) against customs duties and any other charge or services
that may accrue to the goods being deposited in the public warehouse.
b. The licensing department may in coordination with the finance department determine
the amount of the bank or cash guarantee in proportion to the valueof goods deposited
in the warehouse provided that it should not be less than amount specified in Para (a)
of this Article.
c. Provide fully furnished and equipped offices within the warehouse zone for the
customs administration and other departments staff.
d. Submit an insurance policy covering all risks for the warehouse and the goods
deposited therein.
Article (4)
The investing body shall pay annual licensing and renewal fees as decided by the
customs administration.
Article (5)
a. Submission of the deposit declaration by the goods owner. His representative or the
authorized broker for storing the goods in the warehouse shall be regarded as a
written request.
b. The customs declaration shall not be registered unless a notification from the
investing body accepting the deposit of goods is received. The registration of such
declaration shall be regarded as an approval from the customs administration for
depositing the goods in the public warehouse.
c. The investing body shall submit a notification advising that the goods have been
deposited in the public warehouse.
d. Subject it paras (a),(b) and (c) above, goods shall be deposited in the warehouse only
under a deposit in the public warehouse.
Article (6)
The deposit of the following goods shall be prohibited:
a. Prohibited goods based on lists being issued as to contain the same b. Explosives and similar materials unless the warehouse is so licensed by the competent authorities.
c. Radioactive materials.
d. Goods in contravention of laws or regulations relative to the protection of intellectual,
commercial and industrial property rights.
e. Narcotics of all kinds.
f. Goods originating in an economically boycotted country.
g. Bulk goods unless the warehouse is so designed for that purpose.
h. Damaged, spoilt or expired goods.
i. Any goods determined by the customs administration under a decision from the
director general.
Article (7)
Subject to Para (h) of auricle (6), goods shall be deposited for a period of two(2) years
and may be extended for further year, when necessary, upon the approval of the director
general or the licensing department.
Article (8)
1. Goods may be transferred from warehouse to another according to the following conditions:
a. A declaration for the transfer of goods shall be prepared at the competent
customs office for the purposes of completing records and registration with the
transfer or warehouse and depositing them in the transfer warehouse.
b. The customs declaration shall not be registered unless a notifications from
the investing body of the transfer warehouse accepting the deposit of goods is
received. The registration for depositing the goods in the transfer warehouse.
c. The investing body of the transfer warehouse shall submit a notification
confirming the deposit of goods in the warehouse.
d. Transfer of goods in such a manner shall be accompanied with the transfer of
all obligations arising out thereof to the transfer warehouse providing that the
storage duration specified in article (7) shall not be exceeded for all deposit
declarations of the same goods.
2. Goods may be exported from public customs warehouse under regular re-export
declarations of the same goods.
3. Subject to the principle of the first point of entry, goods that have been taken out from
public customs warehouse to any of the GCC States shall be cleared at the competent
customs office upon payment of customs duties thereof and application of all customs
procedures and instructions in force in that country.
Article (9)
a. The competent customs office shall maintain records in order to control the movement
of goods entering and exiting the warehouse.
b. The investing body shall maintain records containing all information about deposited
and exiting goods in accordance with the deposit and exit declarations.
c. Subject to the approval of the customs administration, automated systems shall be adopted for the purposes mentioned in the above paras (a) and (b) of this article.
Article (10)
a. The competent customs office may examine the goods in accordance with the
provisions of the common customs law.
b. If any difference at the entry to the warehouse appears between the goods,
customs declaration and the attached documents. A report on the to be signed by
the representative of the investing body and the competent customs officer shall be
prepared and sent to the manager of the competent customs office for further actions
and as the case so requires.
Article (11)
a. The ownership of the goods shall belong to the persons whose the deposit customs
declaration is prepared in their names.
b. Subject to article (7) and Para (d)of article (13) of this policy, the ownership of the deposited
goods or part thereof may be transferred by the original ownerto other subject to:
1. Licensing department approval.
2. Investing body approval.
3. Para(d) of article (13) of this policy.
c. After the transfer of the goods ownership is approved, they shall be registered in the
name of the new owner and all obligations arising out thereof shall be transferred to
him from the date of such approval.
Article (12)
the competent customs office or any officer assigned by customs administration may
access the warehouse and open the packages to check their contents or to distinguish
them by special marks in the manner that he deems appropriate according to the law;
and may also request from the investing body to move or re-arrange the goods within
the warehouse if so required.
Article (13)
a. The goods owners, their representatives or authorized brokers may enter the public
warehouse to examine their representative or authorized brokers may enter the
public officer and a representative from the investing body.
b. They may also samples from the goods deposited in the public warehouse when
necessary by approval from the competent customs office and shall be cleared
according to the proper customs declarations.
c. Goods being deposited in public customs warehouse shall be cleared under customs
declarations for all customs cases in accordance with the provisions of the law.
Policies and procedures thereof.
d. Item being imported in the form of sets may be split provided that such splitting shall
not result in a loss to customs revenue.
e. Upon the approval of the customs office manager. The goods owner, his representative 
or the authorized broker shall reserve the right to assort, sorting out or packing their
goods or any other procedures necessary for preserving and preparing them for sale
providing that such processes shall not result in a loss to customs revenue.
Article (14)
a. If the goods being deposited in the warehouse have not been withdrawn within the
period specified in Article (7) herein, they shall be sold by the competent customs office
manager in accordance with provisions of section XIV of the law and policies thereof.
b. Goods being assigned by their owners under a written undertaking shall be sold
forthwith in public auction by the manager of the competent customs office in
accordance with the provisions of section XIV of the law and policies thereof.
c. Goods existing in the public warehouse, which their owners or source cannot be figured
out after have been verified including the remains and packing residues of commercial
value shall be treated according to the treatment mentioned in para (b) above.
d. The investing body shall submit a statement containing the goods, which their deposit
period specified in Artic le (7) herein expires.
Article (15)
a. Upon a written request by the goods owners, their representative or the authorized broker.
The declared values under import invoices may be adjusted if the goods are damaged due
to natural factors ( disasters ) providing that a committee consisting of representatives from
warehouse licensing department, the competent customs office, valuation department and
the investing body shall be formed for recording the department for re-valuating the goods.
b. If the goods are split due to non-performance or omission by the investing body or
the goods owner, the customs duties shall be determined upon the value of goods
on that day of its entry.
c. If the goods are lost due to any reason, the investing body shall pay full customs
duties and all costs, expenses and fines in accordance with the provisions of the law.
Policies and notices thereof.
Article (16)
The Director General or the licensing department may suspend, revoke or re-licensing
the warehouse that previously have been licensed according to the provisions herein.
Article (17)
The Customs tariff and origin department shall act as a referential agency for settling all
disputes relating to public customs warehouse.
Article (18)
This Policy shall come into force as from 22/10/2009 and supersedes any circular,
customs notice or decision contradicts with the provisions of this policy shall be revoked.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Policy details
By virtue of whatever provided for in the provisions of Article (69,70,71) of the Common
Customs Law of the GCC States and the regional and international conventions in force
relating to goods in transit, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
Definitions
The following words and terms wherever mentioned throughout this policy shall have
the meanings assigned for them unless the context otherwise requires:
1. Goods in Transit: Shall mean the customs procedures under which the goods shall
be transported from a customs office of departure to a customs office of destination
within a specific period of time without payment of the customs duties thereupon
provided that cash or banking guarantee equivalent to the payable customs duties shall
be submitted.
2. Exceptional Cargo: Shall mean the goods which are normally not carried on a
transport unit being liable to packing and sealing due to their weight, size or nature
provided that they shall easily be recognized.
Article (2)
Transit periods
a. the goods in transit must be transported and delivered to the other customs office
(exit post) within a period not exceeding thirty (30) days from the date of clearing the
customs declaration.
b. the goods in transit must depart finally to their destination with submitting the
documents supporting such departure.
Article (3)
General Provisions
Transit operations can be completed only at the authorized customs offices.
Article (4)
For the purposes of the carriage of goods in transit by different means of transportation,
the following shall be required:
a. The goods shall be labeled with the aim of transit as contained in the manifest, copy of bill
of lading or the customs declaration from the customs office of the neighboring country.
b. The customs declaration shall be prepared by the customs broker being liable thereto
until the exit of goods and payment of dues thereof.
c. A financial or banking guarantee equivalent to the payable customs duties shall be
submitted.
d. Goods in transit shall be subject to examination, inspection and sealing in accordance with the selectivity rules, risk criteria and the business processes in force.
e. The carriers of goods in transit along with the goods shall directly proceed to the
prescribed exit posts using the access route thereto.
Article (5)
The means of transport being used for transit operation shall satisfy the following conditions:
a. Duly licensed under a valid traffic license conformable to the true state of affairs thereof.
b. Customs seal can be simply and effectively affixed.
c. There will be a partition between the driver’s cockpit and load compartment in
a manner ensuring safety of sheets and covers position in accordance with the
provisions hereof.
d. No goods can be removed or introduced into, the sealed part of the vehicle without
leaving obvious traces of tampering or without breaking the customs seal.
e. They contain no concealed spaces where goods may be hidden.
f. The load compartment floor and sides thereof shall be fixed to the vehicle structure
in such a manner that they can only be removed from inside and such side shall have
metal rings fixed thereto by welding.
g. Open transport units shall be packed with firm covers fastened by ropes and
surrounded from outside by a wire enabling to affix customs seals in a manner
preventing tampering with the cargo thereon.
Article (6)
Means of transport must be provided with sheets (canvas) satisfying the following conditions:
a. Must be intact and not torn made up of strong or plastic covered or rubberized cloth.
b. The sheet must fully cover all cargo hanging down on the load compartment sides
being sheeted.
c. Must be provided with metal rings fixed inside the cloth along its parameter with
equal dimensions in a manner preventing leakage of goods.
d. If the sheet is made up of several pieces, their edges shall be folded and sewn with
two seams at least 15 mm apart and clearly different from the color of the sheet.
e. If the sheet is of plastic-covered cloth, and is made up of several pieces, the edges
of the pieces shall overlap by at least 15 mm and sewn. The edge of the outer sheet
shall be covered with a band of plastic material at least 7 mm wide. The pieces shall
be welded in such a way that they cannot be separated and rejoined without leaving
obvious traces.
Article (7)
The fastening ropes (seal rope) shall fulfill the following requirements:
1. Shall be made up of one piece and ends with one metal piece on its edges. The metal
piece shall be hollow allowing customs seal fixing 2. Shall be of a length allowing collecting its edges after passing through all sheet eyelets
and compartment rings.
3. Shall be fixed in such a way that precludes access to any place in the load compartment
or the cargo itself without leading to its breakage or damage.
4. If the rope is covered with plastic, such material must be transparent and stretchable.
Article (8)
Customs seals shall fulfill the following requirements:
a. Shall be made up of strong metal or plastic material in such a way that it cannot be
liable to breakage or damage due to natural factors.
b. Shall have a shape and size allowing easy visibility.
c. Cannot be counterfeited or forged.
d. Shall bear the word (Customs) and the country’s name.
e. Shall bear serial numbers.
f. Shall be made up in such a way that it cannot be used for more than one time.
g. Can easily and rapidly be affixed.
Article (9)
The fixing tools (metal rings) shall fulfill the following requirements:
a. Shall made up of metal fixed to the vehicle structure, container or load compartment in
such a way that they cannot be removed from outside without leaving obvious traces.
b. Shall be close together at equal dimensions.
c. Shall be joined but not welded.
d. Shall be placed at about the load compartment floor level at all sides.
Article (10)
The load compartment or container shall meet the following requirements:
a. The constituent parts thereof (sides, sheets, roof and cross-pieces) shall be assembled
in such a way that they cannot be removed or replaced from outside without leaving
obvious traces.
b. Shall be of a structure, which cannot be modified without leaving obvious traces.
c. Doors and all other closing systems shall be fitted with a device on which customs seals
can be fixed.
d. The closing device must be such that it cannot be removed and replaced from the outside.
e. The door must be designed in such a way that it cannot be opened without breaking the
customs seals.
f. Ventilation openings must be made in such a manner that cannot help to open them
from the outside and through which goods cannot be taken out.
g. The internal lining of the container (particularly double walls containers) must be designed
in such a way that it cannot be removed or replaced without leaving obvious traces.
h. Goods cannot be removed or introduced into the part of the container on which the
customs seal is fixed without leaving obvious traces if it occurs.
i. They contain no concealed spaces where goods may be hidden and all spaces containing
the goods must be accessible by customs inspection.
j. The provisions contained in the foregoing subparagraphs (a-i) of this Article shall
be applicable to containers, which can be folded or dismantled provided that such
containers are provided with closing systems that can close all parts together when the
container is erected. The closing system must be stamped with customs seals on the
outer part of the container when being erected.
Article (11)
The customs office shall register the number of customs seals in the customs declaration
and any other customs documents.
Article (12)
Where the goods are of special nature and cannot be sheeted, they will be sealed as the
following:
a. Small packages: will be sealed by surrounding the package with a thread, wire or rope
made up of one piece in a continuous manner and the knot will be stamped with a
customs seal.
b. Small samples: shall be placed in a box or firmly closed container. An adhesive tape will
be applied thereon with the customs inspector’s signature and customs office stamp.
The goods owner or its representative shall sign on the box or container. Failure to do
so due to nature or size of the sample cover, the sample will be placed in a pack or case
made up of cloth to be stamped with customs seal.
c. Double sealing or packing of package: it shall be, following the customs sealing, sheeted
with a woven piece surrounded by one thread and a second customs seal will be fixed
on its knot if the nature of goods so requires.
Article (13)
The customs sealing on the load compartment shall be sufficient if the means of
transportation having a load compartment satisfies the full closing requirements and
firm sheeting by ropes passing through the canvas openings and the compartment
screws and also if the goods are bulk of a special nature such as cement bags, steel
bars, timber and pipes provided that the canvas and the compartment rings are in a
good condition that cannot allow removal of anything from the cargo or reaching them.
Article (14)
If a package found to be defective or suspected, it will fully be inventoried and a report
on its contents will be prepared signed by the carrier and the inspector officer. The package will then be repaired and sealed or placing its contents in another pack bearing
a customs seal.
Article (15)
a. No goods will be permitted to be loaded with goods in transit unless customs approval
is obtained and under a customs control.
b. Goods shall not be removed from a means of transport to another unless approved by
the customs office and under a customs control.
Article (16)
Applicable customs procedures at the exit port through which goods in transit exit:
1. The goods owner or its representative shall submit a transit declaration and any other
required customs documents for completing exit procedures.
2. The transit declaration will be transferred to the inspection and examination for the
purposes of ascertaining the customs seal, sheets, ropes and rings. If the same found
to be intact, the declarations would be marked in preparation for allowing the cargo to
be taken out otherwise physical inspection will take place to ensure conformity of cargo
to the documents and declarations thereof.
3. Following the inspection, examination and reconciliation process, the goods exit and
entry certificate and other customs documents will be attested and goods and means
of transport will be permitted to be taken out.
Article (17)
The customs offices shall be responsible for implementing the provisions hereof and
settle all disputes and procedures relating to goods in transit. If such disputes continue,
the Customs Tariff and Origin Department will the agency to be referred to for resolving
the same.
Article (18)
This Policy shall come into force as from 01/06/2011 and whatsoever contradicts its
provisions shall be revoked
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Conditions and Procedures concerning implementation of the Free Trade Agreement Between the Member States of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
and EFTAStates
Policy details:
− Pursuant to Federal Decree No. 12 of 2014 ratifying the Free Trade Agreement
between the Member States of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
and the EFTA States;
− Pursuant to Federal Customs Authority’s letter No. 581/2015 dated on 16/4/2015;
− Having reviewed the Agreement and annexes thereof;
− And for the purpose of regulating, organizing and simplifying procedures for
implementation of the Agreement;Has decreed the following:
Article 1
Definitions
The following terms and expressions, wherever mentioned in this policy, shall have the
meanings hereunder assigned to them unless the context otherwise requires:
1. The Agreement: The Free Trade Agreement between the Member States of the
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf and the EFTA States.
2. Parties to the Agreement: The Member States of the Cooperation Council for the Arab
States of the Gulf and the EFTA States.
3. Competent authorities: The Ministry of Economy for the United Arab Emirates and
Customs authorities for the EFTA States.
4. GCC States: The Member States of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the
Gulf.
5. EFTA States: The Member States of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA): The
Republic of Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the
Swiss Confederation
6. Customs duties: Fees specified in tariff Schedule or any other duties or taxes imposed
at the time of import, except from the fees and taxes equal to the duties imposed on
local products in accordance with Article III of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT 1994) and service fees imposed in accordance with Article VIII thereof,
and except the applicable anti-dumping duties or countervailing measures subject to
the terms of Articles VI and XVI of the GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Subsidies
and Countervailing Measures.
7. Value: means the Customs value calculated in accordance with the provisions of
Article VII of the GATT 1994 and WTO Agreement.
Article 2
Obligations on Trade in Goods
(Customs Duties)
By virtue of Article 2.2 of this Agreement, the obligations of the parties hereto in relation
to customs duties shall be as per the following: 
a. Abolition (exemption) of customs duties on originating products:
1. Customs duties shall be abolished on all products originating in any of the GCC
States when imported directly to an EFTA State, except as provided for in this
Agreement and annexes thereto and the complementary agreements on trade in
basic agricultural goods between the EFTA States and the GCC States.
2. Customs duties shall be abolished on all products originating in the EFTA States
as covered under Category A of the Annexes of this Agreement when imported
directly to the GCC in accordance with the terms of Article 5 of this Policy.
b. Products with deferred customs duty exemption:
1. Customs duties shall be collected on all imports of originating products covered
under Category B from the EFTA States to the GCC States up to the end of the fifth
year from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Such products shall be
exempt from customs duties as of the first day of the sixth year of entry into force
of this Agreement when imported directly from an EFTA State.
2. The applicable Tariff schedule shall be applied to products covered under
Category RC provided in Annex III of this Agreement until the Parties review the
development of their growth in trade volume of the products covered by this
Category, as well as possible development on measures applied in respect of
such products.
Article 3
Products Excluded from the Scope of the Agreement:
Products originating in EFTA States and covered under Category X within the Annexes
of this Agreement shall be excluded from the scope of the Agreement when imported
from an EFTA State to the GCC, and shall be subject to the applicable customs rules and
procedures including the applicable tariff schedule.
Article 4
Products Prohibited from Importation
Products originating in any of the EFTA States and which are covered under Category P
within the Annexes of this Agreement shall be prohibited from importation into the GCC.
Article 5
Rules of Origin
For the purposes of implementation of this Agreement and granting preferential tariff
treatment, the following conditions shall apply:
1. Products should be transported directly between the Parties. However, such products
may be transported through territories of non-parties by means of transit, provided
the following is fulfilled 
a. They do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading, splitting-up of
consignments or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition.
During this period the products shall remain under customs control in the
country of transit;
b. The importer shall upon request present a sufficient information on proof of
origin to the customs authorities of the importing Party that the conditions set
out in paragraph 1 have been fulfilled;
c. For the purpose of application of paragraph 1, originating products (GCC, EFTA)
may be transported by pipeline across territories of non-parties.
d. Subject to the terms of Article 14 of Annex IV, preferential tariff treatment of
this Agreement shall be granted to a products originating in a Party which are
exported for exhibition to a non-party and sold during or after the exhibition into
a Party.
2. Products must be originating in a GCC or EFTA State on the condition that:
a. They must be wholly obtained or produced in the territories of a Party or have
undergone sufficient working or processing as define in Article 3 or Article 5 of
Annex IV to this Agreement;
b. Products imported from an EFTA origin into GCC shall be accompanied by a
movement certificate EUR.1 duly issued and certified by the customs authorities
in the country of origin (attached the specimen of Movement Certificate EUR.1);
c. Products exported from a GCC origin into EFTA shall be accompanied by a proof
of origin certificate issued and certified by the competent authorities in the export
party of the GCC State.
d. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2.b of this Article, imported goods
and products referred to in Article 25 of Annex IV to this Agreement shall be
exempted from the requirement of movement certificate EUR.1 subject to the
terms and conditions therein provided.
Article 6
Free Zones
The provisions of this Agreement and preferential tariff treatment shall be applicable to
products stored or manufactured within free zones in a Party, provided that:
a. Products stored in a free zone situated within the territory of a Party are not
substituted by any other goods and do not undergo handling other than normal
operations designed to prevent their deterioration;
b. When products originating in a Party enter a free zone under cover of a proof of origin
and undergo sufficient treatment or processing, the authorities concerned shall,
for the purpose of implementation of this Agreement and granting a preferential
treatment upon exportation to another Party, shall issue a new proof of origin at the exporter's request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in conformity with the
provisions of Annex IV hereto;
c. Products manufactured in a free zone situated within the territory of a Party, shall
be considered as products originating in this Party and eligible for the preferential
treatment under this Agreement, when exported to the other Party, provided they
have undergone sufficient working or processing in the free zone in conformity with
the provisions of Annex IV of this Agreement.
Article 7
Claiming Preferential Treatment (Implementation of the Agreement
The importer shall claim for preferential treatment at the time of importation of an
originating product. The said claim shall be made by selecting the exemption box on
the customs declaration form, and by using the exemption code designated for that
purpose.
Article 8
General Provisions
a. Customs centres and Customs Declaration Management shall be responsible for
implementing the provisions of this Policy.
b. The terms of this Policy shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the
provisions of the Agreement.
c. Customs Tariff and Origin department shall be the competent authority to resolve all
disputes that arise in relation to the enforcement of the Agreement
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Goods Examination Procedures
Policy Details
Pursuant to the provisions of Articles (52-59) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC
States concerning examination of goods, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
The following words and terms, wherever mentioned throughout this policy, shall have
the meanings hereby assigned for them, unless the context otherwise requires:
-Examination: means the inspection of the goods wholly or partially by the competent
officer.
-Designated Officer: means the customs inspection officer or any of Dubai Customs
officers tasked with examining the goods.
- Goods Owner Representative: means any natural person having obtained a license
from Dubai Customs who declares the goods before the Customs office and completes
customs clearing procedures in favor of the owner of the goods with whom he works.
- Customs Broker: means any legal person having obtained a license from the customs
office and engaged in the preparation of customs declarations, signing and submitting
them to the customs office and completing customs procedures for clearing of goods
in favor of third party`s account.
- Individuals: mean the natural persons acceptable by the customs office to work on
carrying, unloading and opening packages and goods together with performing the
duties assigned to them by the customs office or the designated officer.
- Store house: means the building or place prepared for temporary storage of goods
pending withdrawal under the relevant customs procedure, whether being operated
by the customs official public agencies or investing bodies.
- Warehouse: means building or place where goods are deposited under customs
administration control and their customs duties are suspended in accordance with
the provisions of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States.
Article (2)
Subject to the applicable selectivity rules, risks criteria and business processes at the
customs office, the goods shall be examined by the designated officer at the customs office
after registering the customs declarations according to the following rules and controls:
1. Transferring the goods to the place of examination and the unpacking and repacking of
packages and all other works required for examination shall be at the expense of the owner
of the goods who will be held responsible of goods until arrival at the place of examination.
2. Individuals carrying the goods and presenting them for examination shall be acceptable to
the customs office.
3. The designated officer shall examine the goods wholly or partially.
4. Access to the stores, customs warehouses and yards intended for the storage or deposit
of goods and to the places allocated for examination may be restricted to any authorized
persons, unless approved by the customs office.
5. The assistance of customs dogs and examination supporting equipment may be sought
whenever both or either are required for inspection and examination.
6. If the designated officer is unable to verify the contents of the customs declaration through
examination of the goods or documents submitted, he may suspend examination and
request necessary supporting documents.
7. The designated officer may re-inspect the goods, when necessary and whenever
fundamental reason occurs.
Article (3)
Whenever the customs office suspects the presence of prohibited or illegal goods, it shall
have the right to open the packages for examination. Such opening may be authorized
in the absence of the owner or his representative, if he refrains from attending the
inspection at the specified time notified to him Whenever necessary, the customs office
may examine the goods before notifying the owner of the goods or his representative by
a committee formed for this purpose by a decision of the Director General pursuant to
Article (55) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States, and a report of the findings
of inspection shall be made.
Article (4)
The goods shall be examined according to the following procedures:
1. Before the physical examination, the invoice shall be reconciled with the contents of the
packing list, certificate of origin, bill of lading, marks and numbers and then with whatsoever
contained in the customs declaration.
2. Upon the physical examination of goods, the contents of the documents mentioned in Para
(1) of this Article shall be matched with the actually imported goods.
3. Verify the condition of goods and number of packages and ensure their safety.
4. Ascertain the description of goods to ensure that they are not hazardous goods requiring
examination specialists such as chemical substances and other materials needed to be
tested by competent agencies.
5. Select a number of packages for examination representing all item
6. The designated customs officer shall make an inspection report on the condition of the
goods and their type, quantity and numbers and other important information thereon.
7. The designated officer shall release the goods in case of non-existence of any customs
offences, affix customs stamp onto the customs declaration and sign it to acknowledge
release of the goods after completing all customs procedures and other agencies
procedures if so required.
Article (5)
The goods shall wholly be inspected under the following conditions:
1. Bulk goods.
2. Goods of various items being imported in irregular packages without detailed packing lists
attached thereto.
3. Where the position of customs seal, ropes or pavilion found not to be properly secured.
4. Suspected goods or the goods with respect of which information or news is received or
implying a violation to the provisions of law 
5. Goods subject to amending requests by their owners whatsoever contained in the customs
declarations after having been registered or cancelled.
Article (6)
Examination shall be conducted in the presence of the owner of the goods or his
representative and should a shortage in the contents of the packages develop, responsibility
for such shortage is determined as follows:
1. If the goods had been placed in the customs warehouses in packages that are in an
apparently proper condition from which it can be ascertained that the shortage in their
contents had occurred at the exporting country prior to shipping, then such shortage shall
be disregarded.
2. If the goods entering the customs warehouses and stores are in packages that are not
in an apparently proper condition, the entity in charge of these warehouses and stores
shall, together with the carrier, record this occurrence in the acceptance report and verify
the weight, contents and number of packages. It shall also take the necessary precautions
to ensure safety of the goods. In this case the carrier shall be held responsible unless a
reservation is indicated on the manifest and endorsed by the customs office of the exporting
country in which case the shortage will be disregarded and pursuit shall be discontinued.
3. If the goods admitted into the customs warehouses and stores in packages that had been
an apparently proper condition then they became subject of suspicion, the entity in charge
of the warehouses shall be responsible for any shortage or replacement.
Article (7)
a. Examination may take place outside the customs office for the imported goods against the
prescribed service charges for the following events:
1. Sensitive, fragile or perishable goods such as furniture, glass and glass manufactures,
artistic masterworks and antiquities.
2. Personal effects and household items for personal use.
3. Full production lines and units imported unassembled or in different consignments
and goods, which can be inspected only after assembled at their workplace.
4. Very heavy pieces of goods that cannot be unloaded and handled within the customs office.
5. Any goods whose inspection outside the customs office approved by the Director
General or his representative.
b. For the purposes of the examination outside the customs office, the following will
be required:
1. A request by the owner of the goods or his representative shall be submitted.
2. The respective customs office`s approval for the request with respect of the events
contained in Para (a) (1-4) of this Article.
3. Sealing and escorting the goods if so required.
4. Customs seal shall be broken and packages will be unloaded and opened only in the
presence of the designated customs officer and under his supervision.
5. Such goods shall be examined in accordance with the rules and controls provided for
in this Policy.
Article (8)
Goods belonging to the following persons and agencies shall be exempted from examination:
1. Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, Kings, Princess and Sheikhs of GCC States.
2. International organizations, diplomatic and consular corps accredited by the country and
the political mail on reciprocity basis and may be inspected by the approval of the Director
General or his deputy according to the diplomatic norms or the instructions issued by the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Article (9)
a. The customs office may have the goods analyzed by specialized agencies to verify the kind
and specifications of the goods or their conformity to the laws and regulations.
b. The Director General shall have the right to release the goods that may require the satisfaction
of special conditions and specifications for conducting analysis or examination against an
appropriate undertaking ensuring that they are not to be disposed of until the analysis result
has come out and according to the applicable Customs Policy (concerning release of goods
prior to completing some customs procedures against financial guarantees).
c. The customs office shall have the right to take samples from the goods for the purposes of
analysis and testing to determine customs tariff heading or value and to ensure application of
the necessary customs procedures provided that samples will be in small quantities fitting
with the purpose for which they have been taken and must be returned if not destroyed as a
result of testing and analysis.
Article (10)
Priority shall be given to live animals, food stuff and perishable goods, which their nature
may require swift release.
Article (11)
Goods in transit will be examined in accordance with the provisions of “Goods In Transit”
Policy and the rules of selectivity, risk criteria and business processes in force where
viewing of customs seal and verifying safety of pavilion and ropes will be sufficient except
for cases of suspicion, doubt or receipt of information or news in their respect, then they
will be examined in accordance with the conditions and controls hereof.
Article (12)
The Director General may order destruction of the goods, which proved through inspection
or analysis to be harmful or not conforming to the approved specifications at the expense
and in the presence of the owners of the goods or their representatives. Such goods will
be returned to their source if the case may so require and the necessary report shall be
made (Destruction or re-exportation report, as the case may so require).
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Import of Foreign Goods intended to be Re-exported
Policy details:
Pursuant to Article (95) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States and Articles (14)
and (15) of the Rules of Implementation thereof, the procedures and conditions for the
import of foreign goods intended to be re-exported shall be as the following:
Article (1)
Foreign goods may be imported under import for re-export procedure for a period not
exceeding six (6) months from the date of clearing the customs declaration provided the
value of goods except for vehicles shall not be less than AED 20.000.
Article (2)
The customs duties levied on goods being imported under such procedure shall be
secured by a cash or bank guarantee. The payable customs duties may be guaranteed in
accordance with the rules being approved by Customs for importers.
Article (3)
a. The goods shall be subject to physical examination (inspection) upon importation
based on selectivity, risk criteria and the applicable business rules by matching them
with the documents attached thereto.
b. Where matching of the contents with the declaration and documents thereto cannot
be verified, the competent customs officer may examine the goods wholly.
c. The goods being imported under such procedure shall be subject to the prohibition
and restriction provisions and procedure where projection of approvals from
competent authorities will be required.
Article (4)
a. The goods being imported under this procedure shall be re-exported under re-export
declarations containing number of declaration and a copy of the import for re-export
declaration under which the goods were imported and all distinctive elements.
b. The re-exporter must be the importer in whose name the goods were imported. The reexporter may not be the importer of the goods in the event of submitting the required
documents including a copy of the declaration under which the goods were imported.
c. The goods intended to be re-exported shall physically be examined and matched with the
re-export declaration, exit and entry certificates and documents being submitted to this end.
d. The examination and inspection officers may, if unable to verify the declaration contents
by examining the goods or documents thereto, decide to suspend the examination and
request for the documents that provide the necessary elements of evidence.
e. The re-exported goods shall be subject to the provisions relating to the customs
sealing and security of covering (canvas), ropes and other provisions.
Article (5)
For the purposes of refunding the customs duties being paid in the form of deposit or
releasing guarantees submitted to Customs as a security for the customs duties on the
goods being re-exported under such procedure, shall be as follows:
a. The goods shall be re-exported within a period not exceeding six (6) months from the
date of clearing the import for re-export declaration.
b. The goods intended to be re-exported must be matching those contained in import customs
declaration and at the same condition when imported and are not locally used or damaged.
c. The contents of the “import for re-export declaration” may be re-exported in part
shipments providing that the provisions contained herein are observed.
d. The claim for cash refund or submitting a request for release of bank guarantees
or payment of deposits against customs duties shall be made in accordance with
applicable business rules, procedures, notices and periods.
Article (6)
The following documents shall be submitted for the purposes of proving re-exportation:
a. Re-exported goods by land:
1. Re-export declaration indicating exit of goods outside the country.
2. Exit / entry Certificate.
3. Copy of Manifest.
b. Re-exported goods by se<A>
1. Re-export declaration indicating exit of goods outside the country.
2. Exit / entry Certificate.
3. Copy of the Bill of lading
4. Copy of manifest in the event of re-exportation by vessels that do not make
regular voyages or that do not have a forwarder at the port.
C. Re-exported goods by air:
1. Re-export declaration indicating exit of goods outside the country.
2. Exit / entry Certificate.
3. Copy of Air way bill (AWB)
Article (7)
The department of Customs Tariff and Origin is the agency that to be referred to in
connection with tracking and settling all disputes and procedures relating to import of
goods intended to be re-exported.
Article (8)
This Policy Shall come into force as from 11/05/2011 and supersedes whatsoever
contradicts therewith.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Declaration and Inspection of Items or Belongings Accompanying the Passengers and their Exemptions thereof
Article (1)
The procedures for declaring inspecting, exempting and collecting duties on excess
and impounding of items or belongings accompanying the passengers; at the customs
offices shall be carried out according to the following rules and practices:
Allowed and exempted items
1. Entry of the following items or belongings accompanying the passengers shall be
allowed and exempted from customs duty:
a. Gifts whose value does not exceed AED 3000.
b. The Number of cigarettes shall not exceed 400 cigarettes, 50 cigars, 500 gram of
tobacco (minced or pressed for pipes), minced or pressed tobacco for smoking
tobacco or mild-tasting tobacco.
c. The amount of alcohol beverage and beer shall not exceed 4 litters for alcohol
beverage and 2 cartons of beer; each consisting of 24 cans not exceeding 355 ml
for each can or its equivalent.
2. Entry of the following personal effects accompanying the passengers shall be allowed
and from customs duty:
a. Still and moving image video cameras with their appropriate tapes.
Films and accessories.
b. Projectors for displaying slides and films including accessories
And agreeable quantities of slides and films.
c. Telescopes.
d. Portable Music Equipment’s.
e. Radio systems, combined broadcasting apparatus, CD and DVD players with
agreeable quantities.
f. Mobile telephone.
g. Portable TV sets.
h. Portable Typing Sets.
i. Computers including laptops.
j. Portable calculators.
k. Baby cars.
l. Disabled wheeled chairs and cars.
m. Sports equipment.
n. Cash money, currencies and traveling cheques less than AED 10000 ; and the
passenger’s age shall not be less than 18 years old.
Article (2)
Exemption Condition
Exemption shall be subject to the following conditions and controls:
A. The baggage and gift must be of a personal nature and not In commercial quantities.
B. The personal must not be one of those who reports frequently to customs offices a
trader in what he possesses or a number of the respective conveyances crew.
C. Entry or exemption of cigarettes and alcoholic beverages for those who’s their age is
less than 18 years old; shall not be allowed.
D. Prohibition and restriction procedures shall be applicable to items or belongings
accompanying the passengers.
Article (3)
Duty Collection Procedures for Excess Quantities and value / Commercial Quantities
Goods accompanying the passengers shall be subject to the following procedures:
a. Excess Quantities and Values:
1. Customs tariff shall be applicable to quantities and value in Excess of the
exemptions provided for in Article (l) above.
2. Where no customs duty is paid, excess quantities shall be Impounded under
impoundment receipt for (30) days to be Extended; upon the passenger’s request
and approval by head of the Customs Centre or his representative for another
(30) or (60) days until the passengers leaves or pays the prescribed duty.
3. After the impoundment period provided for in Para (2) above is elapsed, public
auction sales provisions shall be applicable to the goods in question.
b. Goods quantities and Value for commercial purposes:
The customs procedures; in terms of preparing customs declaration, value, charges and
other prescribed procedures for imported goods, shall be applicable to the declared
goods accompanying the passengers in quantities and value for commercial purposes.
Article (4)
Disclosure of cash (physical currency, bearer-negotiable instruments “BNIs”, or both) by
arriving/departing passengers.
All arriving/departing passengers who are 18 years or above should disclose any cash
(physical currency, bearer-negotiable instruments “BNIs”, or both) valued more than
AED 60,000 or equivalent in other currencies.
Passengers who are less than 18 years old, the cash (physical currency, bearernegotiable instruments “BNIs”, or both) that they carry shall be added to the allowed
amount carried by their parents/guardians.
Article (5)
Examination, Inspection and Declaration
a. Notwithstanding whereof set out in this policy. nothing shall prevent Customs from
Controlling and inspecting passengers baggage through red and green channels.
b. For the purposes of this Policy. The following shall be regarded as declaration by the
passengers of their possessions: 
1. Verbal declaration.
2. Passage through the green channel.
3. Passage through the red channel.
4. Written or electronic declaration.
Article (6)
Penalties
a. Subject to the provisions of Para (5) of Article (143) of the Common Customs Law,
penalties provided for in Article (145) of the Common Customs Law shall be enforced
in case goods of commercial nature accompanying the passengers are not declared.
b. Where no declaration in made; and cash amount exceeding the figure provided for in
Article (4) above is found, the amount upon initiating an investigation with customs
officer, shall be seized and taken to the competent authority for legal actions.
Article (7)
Customs Tariff Origin Department is the agency to which all disputes concerning this
policy shall be referred to for settlement.
Article (8)
This Policy and Procedures shall into force as from 16/04/2017
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Proof of Origin & Settlement Of Disputes
Policy Details
Pursuant to provisions of Article (48) of the common Customs law of the GCC states and for
the purposes of proof of origin and settlement of disputes, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
Documents to be attached or lodged electronically to Customs Declarations for the
purposes of proof of origin:
1. For the purposes of proofing the origin when non-preferential treatment is
applicable, original lists (invoices) endorsed by the competent agencies or
organizations as showing true prices and containing a proof of origin, shall be
accepted. An original certificate of origin authenticated by the competent authorities
may also be attached providing that the information contained therein conforms to
that set out in the invoice (list).
2. For the purposes of applying preferential treatment to Commodities originating
from countries, which have economic agreements with UAE or other GCC States, a
proof of origin must be presented along with the declarations as stipulated by such
agreements or the arising protocols thereof.
3. ‘Goods taken out of the Free Zones into country shall be accompanied by a detailed
invoice containing proof of origin.
Article (2)
When no proof of origin is presented, any of the following measures may be taken
depending on the case being dealt with:
1. Where goods are of an origin requiring non-preferential treatment, payment of five
hundred (500) dirham shall be made as a deposit guarantee until an authenticated
proof of origin is presented.
2. Where goods are of an origin requiring preferential treatment (duty exemption or
reduction), the following are to be taken:
a. Where the agreement provides for presenting an original certificate when goods
are cleared, no preferential treatment shall be applicable full payment of customs
duties shall be made and deposit of five hundred (500) dirham against absence of
any required documents shall be paid until such document are submitted.
b. Where the agreement does not provide for submitting the certificate when goods are
cleared, deposits shall be paid as customs duties and a deposit of five hundred (500)
dirham against absence of any required documents until such documents are submitted.
Article (3)
Settlement of Disputes:
1. Any dispute between the customs officer and the consignee or his representative
shall be settled by the Tariff department providing that a detailed report signed by the competent officer and his supervisor/manager outlining reasons for the
disputes must be attached.
2. Tariff department shall act as a reference for settling all origin and economic
agreements related disputes.
Article (4)
Proof of Origin Exceptions:
In accordance with the content of this policy, the following cases are Excluded from the
proof of origin, except from which is stated in Para l/B.
1. Air postal consignments and goods as personal effect, of value Not exceeding five
thousands (5000) Dirham.
2. Publicity materials, samples and models of imported goods Without commercial value
that not exceeding five thousands (5000) dirham.
3. Items or belongings accompanying the passengers as personal Effects.
4. Personal effects and used household items brought into the country by the national
residing abroad or foreigners coming for the first time for residence in the country.
5. Newspapers, magazines, books, periodicals and catalogues bearing clear marks of origin.
6. Remains of vessels and ships lying at anchor in the country’s Ports.
7. Used vehicles and motorbikes of personal use.
8. Grants and donation coming to Government Ministries, Departments and Organizations.
9. Goods sold by auction.
10. Free Zone factories and warehouse and remains.
11. Imported vessels.
12. Temporary Admission goods.
13. Transit goods.
Article (5)
This Customs Policy shall come into force as of 28/05/2005, and the amendment thereof
effective 1/5/2007.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Sale of Goods by Public Auction
Policy Details:
Pursuant to the provisions of Articles (166-171) of the Common Customs law in respect
of the provisions and rules of sale of goods, the following have been decided:
Article (1)
1. The Customs Office by authorization from the respective Executive Director has the
right to sell the perishable seized goods and those subject to shortage or leakage as
well as animals and goods, which are subject to a considerable depreciation, or they
are in condition that might endanger the safety of the other goods or the facilities
therein.
2. The sale of goods shall be based on a report showing the conditions of the goods
and the justifications of sale without having to get an order from the competent
court, provided that the owner of the goods shall be notified of such sale.
3. If a judgment of the competent court to return the goods to its owner issued
thereafter, then the price of the sold goods shall be paid to him after deducting any
payable customs duties, or services charges.
Article (2)
1. The Customs Office by authorization from the respective Executive Director, may
sell the goods placed in general and private customs warehouses upon expiry of
the period of placement if their owners fail to clear them by re-exportation or taking
them out to the local market.
2. The sale of goods shall take place within one month from the date of notifying the
investing body and the owner of the goods or his representative.
Article (3)
The Customs Office may sell the goods placed in customs warehouses, those existing in
the yards or wharves or abandoned goods at the Customs Offices including deposits left
behind by passengers.
Article (4)
Subject to the provisions of Articles (1, 2) of this policy, the grace periods for sale of
goods by public auction for goods stored in warehouse, existing in the yards or wharves
or abandoned at the customs offices including deposits left behind by passengers shall
be as follows:
1. 30 days for dangerous goods, foodstuff and perishable cargo.
2. 90 days for means of transport, vehicles and containerized cargo.
3. 90 days for general and bulk cargo.
4. 90 days for goods left behind by passengers excluding those referred to in Para (1)
of this Article
Article (5)
The Customs Office shall sell the following:
1. The goods and means of transport which become property of the Customs under a
confiscation judgment, a compromise or written waiver.
2. The goods and items whose owners are unknown or which have not been claimed
within the period specified herein Article (4).
Article (6)
The goods and modes of transport shall be sold free of customs duties and other taxes,
excluding the commission that shall be borne by the buyer during the sale procedures.
Article (7)
The proceeds of sale shall be distributed as follows:
A. Customs duties to be calculated in accordance with the actual or estimated value of goods.
B. The cost of the sale process.
C. The expenses incurred by the Administration whatsoever.
D. Transportation charges for purposes of sale.
E. Storage charges in customs warehouses or the warehouses, yards or wharves of
the investing bodies in accordance with the prescribed charges.
F. Any other charges.
1. The Balance remaining from the proceeds of selling the goods, the importation
of which is permitted on the day of sale, after deducting the sums stated in
Para (a) of this Article shall be deposited with the Administration as a deposit.
The persons concerned may claim refund within one year from the sale date
otherwise such balance will be transferred to the treasury.
H. The remaining balance from sale of goods that are prohibited or not allowed to be
imported will be appropriated to the Customs.
J. For goods that are prohibited or not allowed to be imported and which are sold under
a compromise settlement, penal order or a court judgment related to smuggling, the
remaining balance shall be distributed and deposited after deducting the amounts
provided for in Para ( a ) of this article as follows:
1. The share of the treasury from the remaining balance is determined at 50%.
2. The remaining (50%) portion of the balance shall be deposited in the Customs
rewards fund.
Article (8)
When selling prohibited or restricted goods or those requiring a procedure for their
clearing they hall be subject to the following:
1. Prohibited cargo: shall only be sold to agencies that are approved by the competent 
authority under a written consent.
2, Restricted cargo: shall be sold only upon a written consent by the competent
authority.
3. Goods requiring a procedure for their clearing: shall be sold upon a written consent
from the competent authorities in the country.
Article (9)
1. A Public Auction Committee shall be established under the chairmanship of the
Customer Service Centre Manager at the respective Customs office and membership of:
1. Representative from the inspection centre.
2. Two representatives from the Customs service centre
3. A representative from Finance department.
4. A representative from Customs valuation department.
2. The sale processes of goods contained herein by public auction shall take place in
accordance with the following grounds:
1. The Customs valuation department shall determine the value of goods for the
purposes of sale upon the report that prepared by the Customs Office for such
purpose and in accordance with Form (1) herein.
2. Lists of goods intended to be sold shall be published in at least two local daily
newspapers according to Form (2) herein or the Handling authority lists.
3. The Committee shall collect 10% of the sale price to be paid by the last bidder
as an advance payment.
4. The Chairman of the Auction Committee at the Customs office may approve the
sale at the last bid price or re-auction the goods for two consecutive times if the
last bid price found to be less than the estimated value of goods providing that
the advance payment paid by the last bidder shall be retained until the goods
are sold or offered to another bidder or otherwise awarded to him.
5. If the bidder to whom the auction is finally awarded withdraws or refrain in
writing from the payment of the remaining sale price within the prescribed
period for goods withdrawal, the goods shall be offered to the next bidder as
per the bidding list and if he so agrees, the auction shall be awarded to him.
6. The advance payment paid by the last bidder referred to in Article (3) herein is
non-refundable if the bidder fails to pay balance amount due.
7. The Sold goods shall be delivered at the places of their storage and the buyer
shall bear all expenses thereof for taking the goods out including expenses of
loading, packing, stiffing and any other costs.
8. The buyer shall withdraw the goods from the places of their storage within
a period not exceeding one week from the date of the auction award, and the
customs office manager may, whenever necessary, grant him an additional 
week against which storage charges shall be collected as per the prescribed
charges.
9. If the goods are not withdrawn within the period provided for in Article (8)
herein, they shall be deemed to be legally assigned and will be sold for the
account of the treasury.
10. Bidding shall be accepted only from the bidders physically attending the auction
or their representatives who are required to produce a power of attorney or an
official authorization.
11. Form (3) herein shall be approved for the purposes of registering names of
bidders and the advances paid by each and as a final auction award.
12. The Forms herein are integral part of this policy and the Administration may
amend them, as it deems appropriate.
Article (10)
A. The Chairman of the Public Auction Committee may revoke the sale whether or not the
final awarding has taken place and before handing the goods over to the bidder if the
owner of the goods or his authorized representative wishes to clear such goods subject
to the following:
1. Submitting a written request to the customs office manager by the owner of the
goods or his authorized representative
2. Attaching a cheque, bank or cash guarantee equivalent to the customs duties
accrue to such goods, fees, charges and expenses contained in Article (7) of the
Customs Policy DCP19/2008.
3. Refunding any charges, fees or expenses paid by the bidder if revoking of the
sale is approved.
B. The sale may be revoked subject to the approval of the legal Affairs department
and as per the conditions it deems appropriate before handing over the goods and
in consistence with the provisions herein if the owner of the goods or his authorized
representative submit a written request proving a conflict in respect to the goods under
consideration before the competent courts.
Article (11)
This policy shall come into force as from 21/02/2010
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Transfer of  Goods between Customs Zones within Dubai via “Virtual Corridor” Procedure
Policy details:
The achieve the Strategic objectives of the Emirate of Dubai to promote and develop
the services provided to support, encourage and facilitate trade, and in implementation
of Article (67and 72) of the Gulf Cooperation Council Common Customs law to transfer
goods between customs office to another and customs centers in Dubai before the
completion of stage of final customs clearance;
Article (1)
Transfer of Goods between Customs Zones
Goods may be transferred from one Customs zone to another within Dubai and using
Dubai’s roads only upon Dubai Customs approval of the Cargo Transfer Request
Article (2)
Virtual Corridor
Virtual Corridor is an approved customs procedure for transfer of goods under the cargo
transfer request using electronic system from a customs zone to another within Dubai
and using Dubai’s roads only, such roads are therefore deemed to be and constitute the
virtual corridor for transfer of goods.
Article (3)
Value of Virtual Guarantee
A virtual guarantee amounting to AED 10,000 for each Cargo Transfer Request between
custom zones will be debited from the virtual guarantee account granted by Dubai
customs to the shipping agent.
Article (4)
Permitted situations for Virtual Corridor use
a. Transfer of consolidated goods between handling authorities and shipping agents
from a customs zone to another and within the customs territory.
b. Transfer of goods under this procedure shall only be done between authorized
customs zones.
Article (5)
Terms of Use
A Shipping agent Shall be Licensed by the competent authority to store the goods.
B Shipping agent must be registered with Dubai Customs and have obtained customs
client code.
C Dubai Customs shall approve shipping agent’s use of this procedure, and grant
them virtual guarantee account.
D Cargo Transfer Request shall be processed using Mirsal-2 system
E Compliance with the prescribed cargo transfer timeframes, as per the effective
terms and procedures for transferring goods from one customs centre to another.
F Adherence to the rules and regulations set out in relevant Customs policies and notices.
Article (6)
Guarantee Settlement
The settlement of the guarantee shall be automatically processed once the shipping
agent has completed all required customs procedures, and the competent customs
officer has verified the conformity of the goods and the integrity of the seal upon arrival
at the destination custom zone, within the permitted time period for transfer
Article (7)
Offences
Penalties shall be applicable in accordance with the provisions of the GCC Common
Customs Law against smuggling crimes and the like offences and any other customs
offences if any.
Article (8)
Suspension or Withdrawal of Customs Procedure
Dubai Customs has the right to suspend or withdraw such customs procedure from the
shipping agent to which the same is granted in the event of any breach to the terms
and procedures, and business regulations, or in case of committing any violation to the
provisions of the GCC Common Customs Law, or when and as it deems appropriate,
without a prior notice.
Article (9)
Customs Rules and Regulations
Customs rules, guidelines regulating the procedures of transfer of goods within a
customs zone and between different Custom zones, and defining authorized customs
zones and cargo transfer timeframes, as well as any other related customs regulations
according to the decision given by the Director of Dubai Customs.
Article (10)
Service Fee
a- A service fee of AED 100 (one hundred dirhams) shall be applicable for each Cargo
Transfer Request from a Customs Zone to anther Customs Zone within Dubai.
b- A service fee of AED 40 (forty dirhams) shall be applicable for each Cargo Transfer
Request within the same Customs Zone.
c- A service fee of AED 40 (forty dirhams) shall be applicable for each Cargo Transfer
Request between handling authorities and shipping agents within the same
Customs Zone.
Article (11)
This Customs Policy shall be effective as of 01/12/2016
 To view customs policies with updates, please scan the QR CODE availab
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Private Customs Warehouses 
Policy Details:
Pursuant to Articles ( 74 ) . ( 75 ) and ( 76 ) of the common Customs Law of the GCC States,
for the purposes of simplifying and facilitating private customs warehouse licensing
conditions and reducing clients costs and the following have been decided:
Article (1)
The following words and terms. Wherever mentioned throughout this policy, shall have
the meanings hereby assigned for them unless the context otherwise requires.
- Private warehouse: mean the building or place being managed by natural persons
or body corporate where goods ownership belongs to them are deposited under
Customs Administration control and their customs duties are suspended against
the prescribed fees in accordance with the provisions of the law.
- Private Warehouse Owner: means the department, organization or any natural
person or body corporate being licensed to establish a private warehouse.
-	 Competent Customs Office: means the customs centers ( Customer service
centers or inspection centers ) that entrusted with controlling the private customs
warehouses where customs procedures for the goods deposited therein may
completed.
- Customs warehouse licensing: means Customs Tariff and Origin Department .
-	 Competent customs officer: means any customs employee entrusted with
controlling private customs warehouse.
- Customs warehouse operator: mean the person or persons being appointed by
the private warehouse owner as warehouse operators and whose their names are
officially reported to the licensing department.
- Deposit Declaration: means the customs declaration being prepared for depositing
the goods in customs warehouse in accordance with Article ( 47 ) of the Common
Customs Law.
-	 Exit Declaration: means the customs declaration that being prepared for taking out
the goods from customs warehouses as per the required customs status and the
approved forms.
Article (2)
A. For the purposes of licensing customs warehouse, the following terms and
conditions are required:
1. Submit a request according to the approved from duty completed with all
information needed therein.
2. The applicant must be registered with the Customs administration.
3. Public Customs warehouse shall have private entrances with doors that can be closed.
4. Customs warehouse shall be designed as to receive goods if their different
kinds. Nature and storage requirements ( as if being fitted with refrigeration
facilities if the goods owners wish to deposit goods that need to be preserved
in refrigerated areas etc.).
5. Customs warehouse shall be fitted with all services and general safety
equipment in accordance with the instructions from Dubai Municipality, Dubai
Civil Defense and other relevant agencies.
B. Licenses and approvals that issued for establishing customs warehouse prior to
the issue of this policy shall be valid until such such warehouse are established:
otherwise owners of such licenses are to reconcile their status in accordance with the provisions of this policy.
C. Upon a written request and the approved of the licensing Department, the customs
warehouse or installations therein may be expanded or amended by increase or
removal providing that either of the respective terms and conditions is observed
pursuant to Para ( a ) of this Article and the case so requires.
D. The warehouse licensing department shall determine the competent customs office
which will control the warehouse.
Article (3)
a. Prior to exercising operations, a private warehouse owner shall submit a bank or
cash guarantee not less than AED 50,000 against customs duties and any other
charges or services and fines that may accrue to the goods being deposited in the
warehouse.
b. The customs warehouse licensing department shall in coordination with the
Finance department determine the bank or cash guarantee amount in proportion
to the value of goods being deposited in the warehouse providing that determined
amount shall not be less than that set out in Para ( a ) of this Article.
Article (4)
The private warehouse owner shall pay annual licensing and renewal fees as decided by
the customs Administration.
Article (5)
a. Submission of the deposit declaration shall be regarded as a written request from
the goods owners, his representative or the authorized broker for storing the goods
in the warehouse.
b. Acceptance and registration of such declaration shall be regarded as an approval
from the Customs Administration for depositing the goods in the warehouse.
c. Subject to Paras ( a ) and ( h ) above, goods shall be deposited in the warehouse only
under a deposit declaration.
Article (6)
The deposit of the following goods shall be prohibited:
a. Prohibited goods based on lists being issued as to contain the same.
b. Explosives and similar materials unless the warehouse is so licensed.
c. Radioactive materials.
d. Goods in contravention of laws or regulations relative to the protection of intellectual.
Commercial and industrial property rights.
e. Narcotics of all kinds.
f. Goods originating in an economically boycotted country.
g. Bulk goods unless the warehouse is so designed for that purpose.
h. Damaged. Spoiled or expired goods.
i. Any goods to be determined by the customs Administration under a decision from
the Director General.
Article (7)
Goods shall be deposited for a period of two ( 2 ) years and may be extended for further year.
When necessary . upon the approval of the director General or the licensing department.
Article (8)
1. Goods may be transferred from a warehouse to another within the limit of the
following conditions:
a. A declarations for the transfer of goods shall be prepared at the competent
customs office for the purposes of completing records and registration with the
transfer warehouse and depositing them in the transferee warehouse .
b. Transfer of goods in such a manner shall be accompanied with the transfer of
all obligations arising out thereof to the transfer warehouse providing that the
storage duration specified in Article ( 7 ) shall not be exceeded for all deposit
declarations of the same goods.
2. Subject to the principle of the first point of entry, goods that have been taken out
from the warehouse to any of the GCC States shall be cleared at the competent
customs office upon payment of customs duties thereof and application of all
customs procedures and instructions in force in the country.
Article (9)
a. The competent customs office shall maintain records in order to control the
movement of goods entering and exiting the warehouse.
b. The private warehouse owner shall maintain records containing all information
about deposited and exiting goods in accordance with the deposit and exit
declarations.
c. Subject to the approval of the Customs Administration. Online system shall be
adopted for the purposes mentioned in the above Paras ( a ) and ( b ) of this Article .
d. The private warehouse owner shall retain invoices papers, documents.
Correspondence, commercial contracts and documents relating to trade
transactions whatsoever for five years from the date of completing the customs
operations.
Article (10)
a. The competent customs office may examine the goods in accordance with the
provisions of sections of section III of the Common Law.
b. If any difference at the entry to the warehouse appears between the goods, customs
declaration and the attached documents , a report on the same to be signed by the
representative of the private warehouse owner and the competent customs officer
shall be prepared and sent to the manager of the competent customs office for
further actions and as the case so requires.
Article (11)
The manger if the competent customs office or any officer assigned by customs may
access the warehouse and open the packages to check their contents or to distinguish
them by special marks in the manner that he deems appropriate according to the law
and may also request from the private warehouse owner to move or re-arrange the
goods within the warehouse if so required.
Article (12)
a. The goods owner may take sample from the goods deposited in the private
warehouse when necessary by approval from the competent customs office and shall be cleared according to the proper customs declaration.
b. Goods being deposited in private customs warehouse shall be cleared under
customs declarations for all customs cases in accordance with the provisions of the
law, policies and procedures thereof.
c. Item being imported in the form of sets may be split provided that such splitting
shall not result in a loss to customs revenue.
d. Upon the approval of the customs office manager. The goods owner. His
representative or the authorized broker shall reserve the right to assort. Sorting
out or packing their goods or any other procedures necessary for preserving and
preparing them for sale providing that such processed shall not result in a loss to
customs revenue.
e. No goods shall be stored in the warehouse except those owned by the private
warehouse owner.
Article (13)
a. If the goods being deposited in the warehouse have not been withdrawn within the
period specified in Article ( 7 ) herein, they shall be sold by the competent customs
office manager in accordance with the provision of section XIV of the law and
policies thereof.
b. Goods being assigned by their owners under a written undertaking shall be sold
forthwith in public auction by the manager of the competent customs office in
accordance with the provisions of section XIV of the law and policies thereof.
c. Private warehouse owner shall submit a statement containing the goods. Which
their deposit period specified in Article ( 7 ) herein expires.
Article (14)
a. Upon a written request by the goods owner. His representative or the authorized
broker. The declared values under import invoices may be adjusted if the goods are
damaged due too natural factors ( disasters ) providing that a committee consisting
of representatives from each warehouse licensing department. The competent
customs office. Valuation department and the private warehouse shall be found
for recording the occurrence. Establishing the damage percentage and present the
matter to the valuation department for re-valuating the goods.
b. If the goods are spilt due to non-performance or omission by the goods the customs
duties shall be department upon the value of goods on that day of its entry.
c. If the goods are lost due to any reason. The private warehouse owner shall pay full
customs duties and all costs. Expenses and fines in accordance with the provision
of the law. Policies and notices thereof.
Article (15)
The Customs Tariff and Origin Department shall act as a point of contact for setting all
disputes relating to private customs warehouse.
Article (16)
This Policy shall come into force as from 29/06/2009 and supersedes any contradicting
customs policies and notices
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Implementation of Temporary Admission Papers (ATA Carnets)
Policy details:
Pursuant to the Federal Decree No. 59/2010 ratifying UAE accession to Istanbul
Convention on Temporary Admission with respect to Annexes (A&B1) thereof and by
virtue of the provision of Article (89) of the Common Customs Law of the GCC States
and for the purposes of controlling, simplifying and clarifying the procedures for
implementing the convention. The following have been decided:
Article (1)
Definitions
The following words and terms, wherever mentioned throughout this policy, shall have
the meanings hereby assigned for them, unless the context otherwise requires:
- Temporary admission papers: means the international customs document
accepted as a customs declaration, which makes it possible to identify the goods
(including means of transport) and which incorporates an internationally valid
guarantee to cover import duties and taxes.
- ATA carnet: means the temporary admission papers used for the temporary
admission of goods excluding means of transport UAE ATA carnet: means the ATA
carnet in the UAE issued by Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
- Release permission of goods under Cover of ATA carnet: means the electronic
form, which will be completed by the customs officer for the purposes of releasing the
goods that are imported, exported or on transit under cover of ATA carnet.
- Guaranteeing association: means an association approved by the Customs to
guarantee the sums of the customs duties.
- Guaranteeing chain: means guaranteeing scheme administered by an
international organization to which guaranteeing associations are affiliated.
- International organization: means an organization to which national associations
authorized to guarantee and issue temporary admission paper are affiliated.
- Issuing association: means an association approved by the Customs authorities
to issue temporary admission papers and affiliated directly or indirectly to a
guaranteeing chain.
- Corresponding issuing association: means an issuing association established
in another contracting party and affiliated to the same guaranteeing chain.
- Customs transit: means the customs procedure under which goods are
transported under customs control from one customs office to another.
Article (2)
Entry of goods under the cover of ATA carnets under temporary admission or transit
procedure for the purposes of goods intended for display , use in exhibitions, fairs, ,
meetings or similar events will be permitted.
Article (3)
The customs procedures for goods, which are imported, re-exported or in transit and
guaranteed by ATA carnet shall be finalized at the following customs offices:
b. Jebel Ali Customs centre
c. Al Maktoum International Airport Customs Centre
d. Dubai Airport Terminal 1 Customs Centre.
e. Dubai Airport Terminal 2 Customs Centre.
f. Dubai Airport Terminal 3 Customs Centre
g. Cargo Village Customs Centre.
h. Dubai Airport Free Zone Customs Centres.
Article (4)
ATA Carnet
a. The export of goods under the cover of ATA carnet will be to the countries, which
accept the import of goods under the procedure of temporary admission with the
cover of ATA Carnet at the exporter`s risk.
b. The ATA carnet shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue. ATA
carnet may be used for a number of times during its validity period.
Article (5)
The period fixed for the re-exportation of goods imported under cover of temporary
admission papers shall not in any case exceed the period of validity of those papers
provided that it will not exceed six months from the date of the temporary admission.
Article (6)
The following particulars shall appear on the temporary admission papers:
a. The name of the issuing association.
b. The name of the international guaranteeing chain.
c. The countries or customs territories in which the temporary admission papers are valid.
d. The names of the guaranteeing associations of the countries or customs territories
in question.
Article (7)
a. Any particulars inserted on temporary admission papers may be altered only with
the approval of the issuing or guaranteeing association.
b. No alteration to those papers may be made after they have been accepted by Dubai
Customs except with its consent.
c. Once the ATA carnet has been issued, no extra item shall be added to the list of goods
enumerated on the reverse of the front cover of the carnet, or any continuation
sheets appended thereto (General List).
Article (8)
Where it is expected that the imported goods under temporary admission procedure
cannot be re-exported because of the inability of the holder to re-export the goods within
the validity period of ATA Carnet, the association, which issued the papers may issue
replacement papers. Such papers shall be submitted to the Customs for control and
reconciliation with the expired ATA Carnet. When accepting the replacement papers, the expired ATA Carnet will be discharged.
Article (9)
In the case of the destruction, loss or theft of temporary admission papers while the goods
are still in the country, the Customs shall, at the request of the issuing association and
subject to such conditions as the Customs may prescribe, accept replacement papers, the
validity of which expires on the same date as that of the papers which they replace.
Article (10)
Dubai Customs shall make a claim against the guaranteeing association (Dubai Chamber
of Commerce and Industry) for the payment of customs duties and any other sums
within a year of the date of expiry of the validity of the ATA carnet whether in case of reexportation or violating any of the customs admission or transit conditions.
Article (11)
Perishable or consumable goods intended to be processed or repaired shall not be
imported under cover of temporary admission papers.
Article (12)
a. When goods temporarily imported cannot be re-exported as a result of a seizure
(other than a seizure made at the suit of private persons), the requirement of reexportation shall be suspended for the duration of the seizure.
b. The Customs shall, so far as possible, notify the guaranteeing association of seizures
made by them or on behalf of goods admitted under cover of ATA carnets guaranteed
by that association and shall advise it of the measures they intend to take.
Article (13)
Goods shall be examined and inspected physically on importation in accordance with the
rules of selectivity, risk criteria and the applicable business processes at the Customs
by reconciling them with the documents attached thereto.
Article (14)
Translation of the ATA carnet may be requested if the fields therein are filled out in the
language of the exporting country or its customs territory.
Article (15)
a. The ATA carnet fields must be filled out in a readable manner, which cannot be
wiped out.
b. The customs office may, in the event of inadequacy of the description or the customs
tariff heading (classification cannot be determined for the imported goods, request
additional information for the description of goods to be mentioned on the reverse
page of the white copy Article (16)
Service Charges
a. Customs endorsements on temporary admission papers used under the conditions
laid down in this Policy shall not be subject to the payment of charges for customs
clearing for such goods at the customs offices during the normal hours of business.
b. The release permission of goods imported under cover of ATA carnet shall be
processed without any service charge if the processing takes place during the
normal business hours.
c. A service charge of AED 100 for each ATA carnet being processed after the normal
business hours shall be applied.
Article (17)
The following procedures shall be followed for the goods being imported under cover
of ATA carnet:
a. Submit ATA carnet containing the distinguished elements of the imported goods
(value, quantity, description, origin).
b. Ensure that all ATA carnet fields are filled out with the required information and
signed by the guaranteeing association in whose name the ATA carnet has been
issued.
c. The temporary admission period for goods shall not in any case exceed the expiry
period of ATA carnet.
d. Enter the required information in the electronic clearance system and select the
procedure of temporary admission from the menu within the system taking into
account the following steps:
1. Entering ATA carnet code.
2. Entering the expiry date of ATA carnet in the final remarks field in the release
permission of goods.
e. Determine the final date for the re-exportation of goods contained in ATA carnet
designated field.
f. Subject to the provisions of Article (13) hereof the imported goods shall be referred
to customs examination and inspection for the purposes of physical reconciliation
of the imported goods with the information set out in ATA carnet.
g. Print and complete the release permission of goods under cover of ATA carnet.
h. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the white copy in the import field of
the ATA carnet by completing the fields (1-8) of the counter foil.
i. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the customs field in the white copy
of import voucher and refer it to the claims desks at the customs offices to followup whatsoever procedures thereof after the expiry of the admission period.
Article (18)
Procedures for re-export of goods under cover of ATA Carnet
a. The goods, which are temporary admitted under cover of ATA carnet may be reexported in a single consignment or more.
b. The goods, which are temporary admitted under cover of ATA carnet may be re-exported through a customs port other than the port through which they have been
firstly imported. The re-exportation must be through any of the customs offices
referred to in Article (3) hereof.
Article (19)
The following procedures shall be followed for the re-exportation of goods being
imported under cover of ATA carnet.
a. Submit ATA carnet and ensure the period of its validity.
b. Complete the release permission of goods being imported under cover of ATA carnet.
c. Physical examination and inspection of goods shall take place on exit in accordance
with the rules of selectivity, risk criteria and the applicable business processes at
Customs through reconciling them with the documents attached thereto.
d. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the original white copy in the reexport field of ATA carnet after completing the fields (1-8) of the counter foil.
e. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the Customs field in the voucher of
the white copy of the re-export field and refer it to the claims desks at the customs
offices for the purposes of payment or claiming in the event of shortage or difference
in the goods or any other procedures.
Article (20)
The following procedures shall be followed for the approval of UAE carnet:
1. The holder of UAE ATA carnet shall be responsible for ensuring the customs
approval on the front cover of ATA carnet before export for the first time. Such
approval proves that the goods provided for examination are matched with those
contained in the general list of ATA carnet. Failure of approval by the Customs for
the purposes of validity will lead to encountering difficulties by ATA carnet holder
in other countries and upon returning the goods to UAE. The ATA carnet may be
approved prior to the exportation of goods subject to conformity of the exported
goods to the lists on the yellow copy.
2. Prior to the submission of UAE ATA carnet to Customs, the ATA carnet holder must
ascertain the following:
a. Validity of ATA carnet is not expired.
b. Front cover of ATA carnet is signed by the guaranteeing association in whose
name the ATA carnet was issued.
c. Matching whatsoever mentioned with the list attached thereto.
Export procedures on the yellow counter foil and other pages
Prior to the submission of UAE ATA carnet to Customs and for the purposes of exporting
the goods from the country, the ATA carnet holder must ensure the following:
1. The ATA carnet is not expired.
2. ATA carnet is signed by the guaranteeing association in whose name the ATA carnet
was issued.
3. Sections A, B, C, D, E and F in the slip of the export yellow page (voucher) are duly
filled out with the required information.
4. Print and complete the release permission of goods being imported under the cover
of ATA carnet.
5. The exported goods are matching the goods listed in UAE ATA carnet.
6. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the original yellow page in the
export field of ATA carnet by filling out field 7 of the yellow slip (voucher).
7. The customs inspector has stamped and approved the Customs field in the export
yellow counter foil and referred it to the claims desks at the customs offices for the
purposes of control and re-importation.
Article (21)
Procedures for the re-importation of goods under cover of ATA Carnet
The following procedures for the re-importation of goods under cover of UAE ATA carnet
shall be followed:
a. Submitting ATA carnet, which contains the distinguished elements of the reimported goods (value – quantity – description – origin ..)
b. Ensure that all fields of ATA carnet are duly completed with the required information
and is signed by the guaranteeing association in whose name ATA carnet was
issued.
c. Entering the required information in the electronic clearance system and select
temporary admission procedure (re-importation) from the customs procedures
menu within the system subject to the following steps:
1. Entering ATA carnet code.
2. Entering the expiry date of the validity of ATA carnet in the final remarks field in
the release permission of goods under cover of ATA carnet.
d. Ensure that the goods match whatsoever mentioned in the list attached thereto.
e. Ensure that the goods have not been exposed to anything or act leading to increase
in their value or a material change therein.
f. Ensure that sections A, B, C, D, E and F of the yellow copy of the re-importation are
duly completed.
g. Printing and completing the release permission of goods under cover of ATA carnet.
h. Re-imported goods shall be referred to customs examination and inspection for the
purposes of physical reconciliation of goods with the information set out in the UAE
ATA carnet.
i. The customs inspector shall stamp and approve the Customs field in the reimportation yellow counter foil and refer it to the claims desks at the customs
offices for reconciliation purposes.
Article (22)
procedures for the goods in transit under cover of UAE ATA carnet
The following procedures for the goods in transit under cover of UAE ATA carnet shall
be followed:
1. Entry point:
a. ensure that ATA carnet is valid and signed by the customs of the issuing country
and the guaranteeing association.
b. Ensure that the goods match whatsoever mentioned in the general list.
c. Ensure that sections A, B, C, D, E and F in the voucher of the transit blue copy
are duly completed.
d. ATA carnet shall be signed and stamped by the competent customs officer and
the period for exit of goods will be determined on the blue copy of the counter foil.
e. Printing and completing the release permission of goods under cover of ATA carnet.
2. Exit Point:
a. Ensure that the goods are matched with whatsoever contained in the general
list by the customs inspector.
b. Ensure that the goods have been taken out within the permitted transit period.
c. ATA carnet shall be signed and stamped by the customs officer on the blue
copy of the counter foil approving exit of goods.
Article (23)
Temporary Admission Termination
The procedure of temporary admission shall terminate when the goods imported under
cover of ATA carnet are re-exported outside the country, deposited in free zone, customs
stores or warehouse or placed for home use and payment of due customs duties.
Article (24)
The goods, which have not been re-exported for the following reasons shall be subject
to customs duties and fines if are payable:
a. Sold.
b. Distributed.
c. Lost.
d. Stolen.
e. Damaged.
Article (25)
The department of Customs Tariff and Origin shall be the agency to be contacted for
follow-up and resolving all customs disputes and procedures relating to the application
of ATA carnet.
Article (26)
This Policy shall come into force as of the date 02/06/2015 and shall supersede
whatsoever contradicts with the provisions.
<END>
<POLICY>
Temporary Admission
Policy Details:
By virtue of the provisions of Articles (89,90,92,93&94) of the Common Customs Law of
the GCC States and Article (2 to 7) of the Rules of implementation concerning temporary
admission of goods and Article (91) of the Common Customs law and Articles (8 to 13 )
the rules of implementation regarding temporary admission of foreign tourist vehicles,
the following have been decided:
Article (1)
Definition Of Temporary Admission:
The following term set forth in this policy shall have the meaning hereby assigned for it
unless the context otherwise requires:
- Temporary Admission: means the customs procedure under which the goods are
temporarily admitted for a certain purpose and a specific period of time with the
suspension of customs duties levied on them until the purpose for which they have
been admitted is terminated provided that a cash or bank guarantee equivalent to
the payable customs duties is submitted.
Article (2)
Temporarily Admitted Goods:
Temporary admission is permitted for the following goods:
A- Heavy machinery and equipment for completion of projects or for conducting the
experiments and tests relating to such projects.
B- Foreign goods imported for completion of processing.
C- Items temporarily imported for playgrounds, theatres, exhibitions and like events.
D- Machinery and equipment imported into the country for repair.
E- Containers and packing imported for refilling.
F- Animals admitted in for grazing.
G- Commercial samples for exhibition.
H- The other cases so require.
Article (3)
The temporary Periods
The temporary admission for the cases referred to in Article (2) of this policy shall be
for a period not exceeding six months with suspending the amount of customs duties
payable subject to the following:
A- Temporary admission of the heavy machinery and equipment required for the
completion of projects or the conducting of practical and scientific tests shall be for
a period of six months renewable for similar periods, which shall not exceed three
years at the most unless the completion of the project requires a longer period in
accordance with the following conditions:
1- Submit an application for extension within thirty days prior to the expiry of the period.
2- Submit whatsoever proves the continuation of the project or the practical or
scientific tests from the competent agencies B- Temporary admission of foreign goods for the purpose of finishing shall be for six
months renewable subject to the customs administration approval and for a period
not exceeding one year in aggregate from the date of the temporary admission
declaration in accordance with the following conditions:
1- Submit an application for extension within thirty days prior to the expiry of the period.
2-Submit whatsoever proves the requirement for a longer period from the finishing entity.
Article (4)
General Provision
For the purposes of importing the goods under the temporary admission procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this policy, the following shall be required:
a. Submit an application containing the purpose for which the goods are imported
under the temporary admission procedure and the necessary period for admission.
b. Register with the Customs Administration and obtain a customs client code.
c. The customs duties payable in accordance with the temporary customs declaration
shall be secured by a bank guarantee or cash deposit.
Article (5)
A. A customs declaration shall be made according to the form approved for temporary
admission containing all information including legally required documents
declaration and will be subject to all customs procedures.
B. The goods shall be subject to physical examination (inspection) upon admission
in accordance with the selectivity rules, risk criteria and the business processes
applicable to the customs administration. The goods shall be examined through
matching them with the documents attached thereto.
C. The imported goods for the purpose of temporary admission that cannot be
distinguished due to absence of a serial number thereunto may be photographed
for use upon re-exportation.
Article (6)
The imported goods under temporary admission procedure shall not be used, allocated
or disposed of for purposes other than those for which they have been admitted and
declared in the customs declarations.
Article (7)
Heavy machinery and equipment for completion of projects or for conducting the
experiments and tests relating to such projects.
The temporary admission of heavy machinery and equipment shall be subject to the
following controls:
A. The project shall be one of the projects completed for the favor of the government or
an investment project whose completion requires the admission of such machinery
and equipment for this purpose.
B. Submit a copy of the contract or agreement made with the government body for the
account of which the project being completed.
C. Temporary admission shall not be granted to the spare parts, tyres, batteries, oils,
fuels and other materials that can be consumed in the project.
D. The use of the machinery and equipment shall be limited to the project for which
they have been admitted.
E. The type and description of the admitted machinery and equipment shall not be
changed unless after obtaining approval from the Customs Administration.
Article (8)
Temporary Admission of foreign goods for finishing and re-exportation
Temporary Admission of foreign goods for finishing and re-exportation shall be subject
to the following controls:
A. Register with the Customs Administration and obtain a customs client code for
whomever the goods are imported in their names.
B. The importer of the goods must be licensed with the competent agencies and his
activity should be in conformity with the nature of the imported goods.
C. Samples of textiles, hides and other materials requiring direct sample taking upon
examining the goods shall be taken, stamped and signed by the inspection center
officer with affixing thereunto the customs declaration number and to be given to
the customs broker or the representative of the goods owner as to be produced
after finishing and re-exportation.
D. Produce whatsoever proves the finishing upon re-exportation including the nature
of such finishing.
Article (9)
Items temporarily imported for playgrounds, theatres, exhibitions and like events.
Items temporarily imported for playgrounds, theatres, exhibitions and like events shall
be subject to the following controls:
A. Approval from the organizing entity including no objection to admission.
B. The type of the imported goods shall be appropriate and in consistence with the
purposes and object for which they will be admitted.
C. Shall be of the goods which can be distinguished.
Article (10)
Machinery and equipment imported into the country for repair.
Machinery and equipment imported into the country for repair shall be subject to the
following controls:
a. Produce whatsoever proves the completion of repair of machinery, equipment and
devices upon re-exportation including the nature of repair.
Article (11)
Containers and packing imported for refilling.
A- The following containers and packing imported for refilling may temporarily be admitted:
1. Containers and packing for refilling liquidated gas like oxygen cylinders and
other similar containers.
2. Bags made of weaving materials 
3. Ready-made boxes and pallets made of wood.
4. Containers made of iron or steel.
5. Containers made of plastic.
6. Containers made of glass and fiber glass materials.
7. Any other similar materials.
B- Containers and packing imported for refilling shall be subject to the following controls:
1. The imported containers and packing must be empty.
2. The imported containers and packing must be useable and ready for refilling
and re-exportation.
3. Consider health and safety provisions, rules and conditions.
Article (12)
Animals admitted in for grazing
Animals admitted in for grazing shall be subject to the following controls:
A. Obtain a prior permission from the competent authorities.
B. Cases of temporary admission of animals for grazing shall be decided upon by the
Customs Administration in due course.
Article (13)
Commercial samples for exhibition.
Commercial samples for exhibition shall be subject to the following controls:
A. The samples of goods must be of those which can be distinguished.
B. The number and quantity of samples must be in consistent with the purpose of the
exhibition.
C. The samples must be in conformity with the purpose and object for which they will
be admitted.
Article (14)
The temporary admission status shall be terminated by the expiry of the permitted period
specified in Article (3) of this policy according to either of the following procedures:
A. Re-export the admitted goods outside the country.
B. Deposit the goods in the free zones.
C. Deposit the goods in the customs warehouses or stores.
D. Status in the local consumption shall be subject to the following conditions and controls:
1. Submit an application to the Customs Administration for approval.
2. Make a customs declaration (import procedure) and pay the customs duties.
3. Obtain the approvals of the competent authorities as the case so requiring.
4. All other conditions and controls relating to the goods in the status of local
consumption shall be applicable.
Article (15)
A. The goods admitted under such procedure shall be re-exported under re-export declarations
including the number of the customs declaration (temporary admission) under which the
goods have been admitted and all the distinguishing elements of the goods.
B. The person who re-exports the goods may not be the importer of such goods
providing that the customs administration approves the same.
C. The contents of the temporary admission declaration may be re-exported under
more than a re-export declaration subject to compliance with the provisions
contained herein.
D. The goods intended to be re-exported shall be subject to physical examination and
matched with the temporary admission declaration under which they have been
admitted, re-export declaration, exit and entry certificates and the documents being
submitted to this end.
E. The examination and inspection officers, if are unable to verify the contents of the
temporary admission declaration and the re-export declaration through examining
the goods or the submitted documents, may decide to suspend the examination
process and request the documents which provide the necessary proof elements.
Article (16)
For the purposes of refund customs duties paid in the form of deposit or release the
guarantees submitted to the customs administration as surety for the customs duties on
the goods being admitted under such procedure, the following shall be required:
A. The goods must be placed under either of the procedures referred to in Article (14)
of this policy.
B. Submit whatsoever proves the clearance of the goods at the import procedure and
payment of customs duties.
C. The conditions and controls for each case of the temporary admission must be considered.
D. Provide whatsoever proves the discharge of the customs declarations under which
the goods have been re-exported as follows:
1. Goods re-exported by land:
A. Re-export declaration stating exit of goods from the country.
B. Exit/entry certificate.
C. Copy of the manifest.
2. Goods re-exported by se<A>
A. Re-export declaration stating exit of goods from the country.
B. Exit/entry certificate.
C. Copy of the bill of lading.
D. Copy of the manifest in the event of re-exportation by ships which do not
have regular voyages or has no a forwarding agent at the port.
3. Goods re-exported by air:
A Re-export declaration stating exit of goods from the country.
B Exit/entry certificate.
C Copy of Air way Bill (AWB).
4. Goods being deposited in the free zones and customs warehouses:
A. Re-export declaration/deposit declaration (admission) stating the entry of
goods into the free zones or customs warehouses.
B. Exit / entry certificate.
Article (17)
Foreign tourist vehicles (other than those registered in a GCC member state) shall be granted a temporary admission as follows:
a. Six months for vehicles covered by an international passage carnet.
b. Three months for vehicles not covered by an international passage carnet to be
renewed for a similar period if the person concerned submit bank guarantees or
cash deposit equivalent to the amount of the payable customs duties. The vehicle
plate and chassis numbers must be written on the passport of the owner or whoever
the vehicle is admitted in his name.
Article (18)
A. For a vehicle to benefit from the provisions of temporary admission, the following
conditions shall be satisfied:
1. The vehicle shall be officially registered in the country licensed in under a
document proving the same.
2. The vehicle `s license shall be valid.
3. The vehicle shall not have export plates.
4. Production of insurance from an insurance company approved in the state
covering its territories during the period of temporary admission.
5. The production of an accredited IPC to secure the customs duties.
B. In order to benefit from the provisions of this policy, the following shall be satisfied
by the person wishing to obtain temporary admission for his vehicle:
1. He shall be the owner of the vehicle or authorized to drive it under a special
authorization issued from the country of registration and duly certified.
2. He shall have a valid residence in the country where the vehicle is registered
unless he is a national of that country.
3. He shall have a valid driving license.
4. More than one name of one of the family members can be added (wife, husband,
son, daughter, father, and mother) to the license for the admission of a foreign
vehicle if the owner satisfies the required conditions.
Article (19)
a. The following procedures shall be followed when a vehicle is admitted under the IPC:
1. The number, date and period of the temporary admission permit shall be
recorded on the IPC.
2. The coupon page of IPC shall be stamped.
3. The relevant coupon shall be cut from the IPC.
b. The following procedures shall be followed when a vehicle is exiting under the IPC:
1. The number of temporary admission license and date of exit shall be registered.
2. The coupon page of IPC shall be stamped.
3. The relevant coupon shall be cut from the IPC.
4. The vehicle shall be allowed to the country whether from the same port of entry
or any other exit point.
Article (20)
Student and those on scholarships (other than the GCC nationals) studying at one of the universities and institutes in the country shall be allowed to renew the period
of temporary admission for their vehicles during the period of study or scholarship,
provided that the vehicle shall be guaranteed by a valid IPC.
Article (21)
a. The temporary admission permit shall contain all the information relating to the
vehicle and the person concerned n terms of plates No., chassis No., engine No.,
make and color of the vehicle as well as the name of the person concerned, his
nationality and passport number.
b. The procedure of the temporary admission of foreign vehicles shall terminate when
the vehicle leaves the country via one of the customs offices or when is placed in the
free zone or when it is cleared for home use with the payment of the due customs
duties subject to the approval of Customs.
Article (22)
Delay in re-exportation
Subject to whatsoever offences provided for in the Common Customs Law and the
rules of implementation thereof relating to the temporary admission procedure, the
offences of delaying re-exportation of the temporary admitted goods beyond the period
prescribed in the customs declarations shall be subject to the following fines:
a. A fine of AED 1000 for each week of delay or a fraction of the week provided that
the fine shall not exceed 20% of the value of goods, for the offences of delaying
re-exportation of temporarily admitted goods beyond the period prescribed in
accordance with the provisions of this policy.
b. In respect to the tourist cars, these shall be subject to a fine of 20 AED for each day
of delay provided that the fine shall not exceed 10% of the price of the tourist car
after the expiry of the period prescribed in the temporary admission license.
Article (23)
In the event of temporarily admitted goods under one of the procedures referred to
in Article (14) and (21/b) of the policy, the value for the customs purposes shall be
calculated in accordance with the condition of the goods in the date in which the customs
declaration relating to all the procedures in question was made.
Article (24)
The Customs Tariff and Origin shall be the referential agency for following-up and
settling all disputes and customs procedures relating to temporary admission.
Article (25)
This Policy shall come into force as from 11/05/2011 the date of Issue and supersedes
whatsoever contradicts therewith.
Date Of Issue: 01/01/2011
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Controls of the implementation of the Greater Arab Free Trade Area
Policy Details:
In fulfillment of Dubai’s strategic objectives towards enhancing and improving service
delivery, and for the purpose of supporting and facilitating trade in free zones and customs
warehouses through innovative initiatives and sophisticated systems and procedures;
Article (1)
For implementing the present policy, wherever used herein the following terms shall have
the meanings hereby assigned to them, unless the context requires otherwise:
- Department: means Dubai Customs
- Facility: means the Virtual Stock Guarantee facility
- Companies: means companies that are registered and licensed in free zones
within the emirate of Dubai and companies that re-export goods stored in customs
warehouses.
- Customs warehouses: means public and private customs warehouses registered
and licensed to operate in Dubai.
- Customs legislations: The GCC Common Customs Law and Rules of Implementation
thereof, and all other relevant customs laws, regulations, policies, circulars, notices
and procedures in force.
Article (2)
The Virtual Stock Guarantee is an approved customs facility for the purpose of guaranteeing
customs duty at re-exportation of goods from free zones (FZ Transit out) and customs
warehouses using ports of exit in the emirate of Dubai only.
Article (3)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article (2) hereof, the Virtual Stock Guarantee may be
used when re-exporting goods from free zones and customs warehouses to the outside
world through the UAE’s land ports of exit.
Article (4)
Cash, bank and self guarantees applicable in Dubai Customs shall remain valid for the
purpose of securing customs duty at re-exportation of goods from free zones and customs
warehouses through other exit ports.
Article (5)
The Virtual Stock Guarantee facility may be used by all registered and licensed companies
in the free zones and companies that re-export goods stored in customs warehouses
wishing to enjoy the benefits of this facility. 
Article (6)
Free zone companies desiring to avail this facility should submit an application to the
Client Management of Dubai Customs attested by the licensing free zone authority as per
the form enclosed herewith.
The application will be reviewed consistent with the procedures set out by the Department
in this regard.
Article (7)
Companies that re-export goods stored in licensed customs warehouses in Dubai and
desiring to avail the facility should submit an application to the Client Management of
Dubai Customs as per the form enclosed herewith.
The application will be reviewed consistent with the procedures set out by the Department
in this regard.
Article (8)
The facility excludes shipments of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and its derivatives,
including cigarettes, when re-exported from free zones and customs warehouses.
Article (9)
All customs legislations, including the terms and conditions relating to clearance of
declarations, re-export grace periods, documents submission, and relevant applicable
deductions shall be applied when re-exporting goods from free zones and customs
warehouses to the outside world.
Article (10)
The violations and penalties provided for under the Common Customs Law and Rules of
Implementation thereof and decisions issued thereunder shall be applied in case of noncompliance with the provisions of this policy.
Article (11)
This policy shall come into force from the date of its issuance, and all the concern parties
are requested to implement it by 30 September 2019.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Virtual Stock Guarantee" for Licensed Free Zone Companies and Customs  "Warehouses in Dubai
Policy Details:
In fulfillment of Dubai’s strategic objectives towards enhancing and improving service
delivery, and for the purpose of supporting and facilitating trade in free zones and customs
warehouses through innovative initiatives and sophisticated systems and procedures;
Article (1)
For implementing the present policy, wherever used herein the following terms shall have
the meanings hereby assigned to them, unless the context requires otherwise:
- Department: means Dubai Customs
- Facility: means the Virtual Stock Guarantee facility
- Companies: means companies that are registered and licensed in free zones
within the emirate of Dubai and companies that re-export goods stored in customs
warehouses.
- Customs warehouses: means public and private customs warehouses registered
and licensed to operate in Dubai.
- Customs legislations: The GCC Common Customs Law and Rules of
Implementation thereof, and all other relevant customs laws, regulations, policies,
circulars, notices and procedures in force.
Article (2)
The Virtual Stock Guarantee is an approved customs facility for the purpose of guaranteeing
customs duty at re-exportation of goods from free zones (FZ Transit out) and customs
warehouses using ports of exit in the emirate of Dubai only.
Article (3)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article (2) hereof, the Virtual Stock Guarantee may be
used when re-exporting goods from free zones and customs warehouses to the outside
world through the UAE’s land ports of exit.
Article (4)
Cash, bank and self guarantees applicable in Dubai Customs shall remain valid for the
purpose of securing customs duty at re-exportation of goods from free zones and customs
warehouses through other exit ports.
Article (5)
The Virtual Stock Guarantee facility may be used by all registered and licensed companies
in the free zones and companies that re-export goods stored in customs warehouses
wishing to enjoy the benefits of this facility. 
Article (6)
Free zone companies desiring to avail this facility should submit an application to the
Client Management of Dubai Customs attested by the licensing free zone authority as per
the form enclosed herewith.
The application will be reviewed consistent with the procedures set out by the Department
in this regard.
Article (7)
Companies that re-export goods stored in licensed customs warehouses in Dubai and
desiring to avail the facility should submit an application to the Client Management of
Dubai Customs as per the form enclosed herewith.
The application will be reviewed consistent with the procedures set out by the Department
in this regard.
Article (8)
The facility excludes shipments of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and its derivatives,
including cigarettes, when re-exported from free zones and customs warehouses.
Article (9)
All customs legislations, including the terms and conditions relating to clearance of
declarations, re-export grace periods, documents submission, and relevant applicable
deductions shall be applied when re-exporting goods from free zones and customs
warehouses to the outside world.
Article (10)
The violations and penalties provided for under the Common Customs Law and Rules of
Implementation thereof and decisions issued thereunder shall be applied in case of noncompliance with the provisions of this policy.
Article (11)
This policy shall come into force from the date of its issuance, and all the concern parties
are requested to implement it by 31 October 2019.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Customs Measures for Applying Money Declaration Regulation
Policy Details:
Pursuant to UAE Cabinet Resolution No. (10) for the year 2019 concerning the Executive
Regulation of the Federal Decree Law No. (20) for the year 2018 on Anti-Money Laundering
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism and Illicit Organizations, and following the
Declaration Regulation for currencies, bearer negotiable instruments, precious metals
and stones in possession of inbound and outbound travelers published in issue No. (647) of
the official gazette on 14/2/2019, and after having reviewed the unified guide of customs
procedures at first entry points in the GCC states, and based on the Federal Customs
Authority’s communication No. (FCA/CD/2019/497 ) dated 6/3/2019.
The following has been decided:
Article (1)
Currencies, bearer negotiable instruments, precious metals and stones in possession of
inbound and outbound travelers, or shipping companies working for natural persons or for
banks, exchange companies or other establishments, no matter what their legal structure,
shall be declared at import and export based on the Declaration Regulation issued by the
UAE Central Bank, which is attached to this policy.
Article (2)
A. The maximum limit of currencies and bearer negotiable instruments and precious
metals or stones shall be as per the following table:
Currencies/ instruments/precious metals/precious stones
Maximum permissible limit without declaration
Currencies (dirham or other equivalent currencies)
AED 60,000 or equivalent in other currencies
All kinds of bearer negotiable
instruments (bonds)
AED 60,000 or equivalent in other
currencies
Precious metals with high financial value of all forms, types and categories
AED 60,000 or equivalent in other currencies
Precious stones with high financial value
of all forms, types and categories
AED 60,000 or equivalent in other currencies
B. Maximum limit listed in the table applies to all persons who are (18) years and above.
For those who are less than (18) years old, possessed currencies, bearer negotiable
instruments, and precious metals and stones shall be added to the allowed limit of their in possession of their guardians
Article (3)
Passengers travelling out of or entering the UAE, and couriers working for natural
persons and shipping companies working for banks or exchange companies or other
establishments no matter what their legal structure, should declare what they have as
follows:
A- Passengers travelling out of or entering the UAE, and couriers working for natural
persons should follow the limits listed in the table under article (2) therein using the
electronic declaration forms made for this purpose.
B. Shipping companies working for banks or exchange companies or other establishments,
no matter what their legal structure, should follow the money declaration regulation
regardless of the value of imported/exported currencies, instruments, precious
metals or stones based on the form available in the electronic clearance system.
Article (4)
The procedures stipulated in paragraphs (8,9) in the Declaration Regulation shall apply in
cases of non-declaration, abstaining from giving additional information when requested, or
deliberate hiding of information that should be disclosed, or giving inaccurate information
about the currencies, bearer negotiable financial instruments, or precious stones/metals
with a value that exceeds the maximum limit mentioned in the table under article (2) of
this policy.
Article (5)
Article (4) of Customs Policy No. 12/2016 and its amending policy No. 45/2017 along with
all previous provisions and decisions are considered null and void to the extent that they
conflict with the provisions of this policy
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Client Registration for Acquiring Customs Code
Policy Details:
For the purposes of facilitating and simplifying clients “transactional processing,
creating advanced means for clients’’ e- link with Customs, enabling them to practice
business and duties relative to different customs transactions, activities and procedures
and regulating clients registration procedures for acquiring customs code, the following
have been decided:
Article (1)
Every natural or legal person who deals with the Customs Administration shall be
registered for acquiring customs code subject to the provisions set forth herein.
Article (2)
Registration Procedures for Acquiring Customs Client Code:
a. Requests for Customs client code shall be submitted online to the competent
according to the prescribed from that duty to be completed.
b. The client shall submit a valid license issued by a competent agency, a copy of the
sponsor’s passport and any other requirements to be determined by the competent
department for the purpose of issuing a customs client code.
c. The competent department shall issue a customs client code in accordance with the
activities mentioned in the license being issued by a competent department for the
prescribed fees.
d. The validity of the customs client code shall be the same as the validity of the license
and will expire upon the license expiry.
Article (3)
The competent department shall issue a customs code for each client giving the powers
of customs transactional processing in accordance with the authorized activities
contained in the license being issued by a competent agency.
Article (4)
Any natural or legal person having obtained a customs client code shall not be entitled
to practice customs clearing process unless authorized to do so in accordance with
provisions of the customs broker policy No. (17).
Article (5)
Customs Client Code Suspension:
a. The competent department or whom it authorizes, may suspend the client code
pursuant to the provisions of the GCC Common Customs Law and Implementation
thereof including customs policies and notices which customs procedures are issued.
b. The competent department shall suspend any customs client code if not renewed
within sixty ( 60 ) days from the date of its expiry.
c. The customs client code shall be suspended if the client fails to process any customs
transactions for a period of six (6) months.
Article (6)
Customs Client Code Duties and Obligation the client shall:
a. Submit true documents and information’s about the company for the purposes of
acquiring the code.
b. Comply with the code annual renewal upon its expiry or the given grace period of sixty
(60) days from the license expiry date.
c. Apply for canceling the customs code in the event of revoking the license or suspending
the code if the company fails to use the code for a period exceeding six (6) months.
d. Provide the competent department with any updated or amended data information
being submitted in respect to the customs client code.
Article (7)
The Client Management shall be the competent department for enforcing the provisions
of this Policy and settling any disputes thereof.
Article (8)
This Policy shall come into force to 22/10/2009 and supersedes any contradicting
customs policies and notices
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Customs Broker policy
Article (1)
Customs broker: A customs broker is any legal person having obtained a license from
the Customs office and engaged in the preparation of the customs declarations, signing
them, submitting them to the customs office and completing the customs procedures
relating to the clearance of the goods for the others` account.
Article (2)
Licensing Conditions
1. The requirements for a customs broker can be outlined as the following: Be
registered with the Department of the Economic Development or any similar agency
in the country.
2. Submit a banking guarantee equivalent to AED (50,000) for coverage of contingent
liabilities that the Administration may sustain. This guarantee cannot be refunded
unless a complete calendar year from non-renewal of his license or leaving the
profession is elapsed except for cases that to be decided by the Director General.
3. Where the customs broker is a person operating in one of the GCC States, he must
have obtained the licensing of the respective GCC State.
4. Produce a proof of having a customs clearance office.
Article (3)
1. The customs broker, upon his own needs, may demand to be allowed to employ a
representative or more to act on his behalf in the area of activity decided to him. The
representative intended to be employed must obtain a license of the same from the
Administration.
2. The Administration office may issue a license to the customs broker representative
in accordance with the following requirements:
a. Must be of 21 years old at the time of submitting the application.
b. Should be of a good conduct and behavior.
c. Not an employee with one of the country’s ministries, authorities or organizations.
d. Must successfully complete the profession test to be decided by the
Administration.
e. Produce a proof of fluency in either Arabic or English language.
f. Must have a residence registered in the name of the legal person.
g. To be provided by the owner of the customs clearance office with a stamp
accredited to the customs office bearing the names of both the customs
broker and the representative to be affixed onto all transactions, which the
representatives clears and signs with his accredited signature.
Article (4)
1. The goods owner representative: Any natural person having obtained a license from
the Administration and engaged in declaring for the customs office and completing
the customs procedures only for the benefit of the goods owner for whom he works.
2. Ministries, public organizations and establishments, companies and traders and
individuals bearing commercial licenses may authorize persons to clear their goods
providing that the person in question shall:
a. Have obtained a residence in the name of the agency for which he wishes to
clear its transactions
b. Satisfy the requirements specified in the sub-Paras (a, b, c, d, e, and f) to Para
(2) of Article (3) herein.
c. Produce an authorization approved by the owner of the goods containing an
undertaking to bear the legal liability arranged by the Customs law or other
relevant laws as a result of his acts.
d. The responsibilities and duties applicable to the customs broker and his
representatives shall also apply to the representative of the owner of goods
representative.
Article (5)
Customs broker responsibilities and duties
1. The customs broker shall be held responsible for his acts and those of his employee’s
vis-avis the importers, exporters and the customs office under the provisions of the
law.
2. The customs broker shall be responsible to the Administration for the accuracy of
the details contained in the goods declaration.
3. The customs broker shall fully be held responsible for the offences and smuggling
crimes he commits in connection with the customs declaration and for those
committed by those authorized by him.
4. The customs broker shall be responsible to the Administration for submitting all his
addresses and telephone numbers.
5. The customs broker shall keep a register wherein he records a summary of the
customs transactions he has completed for the account of others according to the
conditions stipulated by the customs office.
6. This register shall contain the amount of duties paid to the customs office, the fees
paid to the broker and any other expenses relating to the transactions. The Director
or his authorized representative shall have absolute power to have access at any
time to these registers without objection by the broker.
Article (6)
Without prejudice to any obligations prescribed by the provisions of customs law and
this policy or arranged by other laws, the customs brokers shall abide by:
1. Preparing, reviewing and documenting the customs transaction and ensuring that
the documents submitted by declarants are true and complete.
16 Customs Policies Customs Policies 17
2. Affixing his stamp and signature accredited to the Administration onto the customs
transaction and documentations thereof, which he solely prepares.
3. Not to loan his name, signature or name or signature of his office or the owner bay
all means.
4. Tracking processing of the transaction, which he documents until all customs
formalities are completed and shall not cease to do so unless an excuse acceptable
to customs office is submitted
5. Clearing all kinds of customs transactions without itemizing any specific one thereof.
6. Not to trade in customs declarations forms and other formats issued by the
Administration.
7. Maintaining transactional secrets of his clients or employers and not to disclose
them to a third party or using them for his personal interest.
8. Not to use by himself or through mediation any of the physical or moral practices
influencing the behavior of the customs officers.
9. Observing the instructions on customs zones, which the customs office allows him
to visit frequently.
10. Fully complying with all terms and conditions provided for in connection with the
facilitations offered to the customs broker whether electronic or non-electronic.
11. Be responsible for the accuracy and completeness of all electronic communications
sent via Integration System and that all data entered shall be complete, true and
correct in all respects.
12. Keeping in safe custody and confidence all data sent and received via the Integration
System and all downloaded and scanned forms relating to electronic clearing of
cargos for a period not less than five (5) years from each such dispatch or receipt
and that no unauthorized person shall have access to or get possession of any such
documentation, data or forms.
13. Allowing the Customs officials at any time and without prior notice to check and
verify any documentation, data and downloaded and scanned forms relating to
clearing of cargos and / or test the Integration System or any part thereof and shall
be bound to any reasonable Customs security procedures.
14. Use a system for safety and security of information, and bear the responsibility for
information and for protecting the stored information from any unauthorized use;
Use its best endeavors to ensure data and forms sent via the Integrations System
are free and clear from computer viruses and anything affecting or causing damage
to entry of information and the electronic clearing system.
15. Notifying the Administration in the event of any defect or failure of the Integration
System of such failure and provide details to it.
16. Not to remove any goods or cargo from its location or deliver it to any person unless
an electronic notification from the Administration authorizing clearing or delivery of
such goods is received.
Article (7)
Customs representative duties
Without prejudice to any obligations prescribed by the provisions of customs law and
this policy or arranged by other laws, the customs brokers shall abide by:
1. Tracking the customs transactions that solely assigned to him by the customs broker.
2. Maintain the documents in his possession and not to tamper in the information therein.
3. Not to disclose or use for his own interest the owner or the customs broker
transactions secrets.
4. Not to use by himself or through mediation any of the physical or moral practices
influencing the behavior of the customs officers.
5. The instructions on customs zones, which the customs office allows him to visit frequently.
Article (8)
General provisions
Licensing procedures
1. The applications for obtaining a license for exercising the profession of customs
clearance (customs broker and owners of goods representatives) or the business
of customs broker representative shall be submitted to the Administration. The
Administration shall decide upon such applications, issue and renew them and may
delete the issued ones or suspend them in accordance with the provisions herein.
2. The validity of the license for exercising the profession of customs clearance, the
business of the customs representative and the owner of the goods representative
shall be for one calendar year and renewable each year.
3. The Administration shall issue the license for exercising the profession against payment
of the prescribed fee for such purpose after successfully completing the appropriate test.
4. The Administration shall issue the customs broker or customs representative card
for exercising the profession against payment of the prescribed fee, showing all
information relating to the customs broker or the customs representative and bearing
his personal photograph. Where the card is lost during the license validity, a duplicate
shall be issued upon producing a letter of loss from the Police Department and payment
of the prescribed fee. The duplicate shall expire upon the expiry of the lost card.
5. The administration shall maintain a record containing names of licensed customs
brokers, customs representatives and owners of goods representatives and the
information thereof.
Article (9)
Lay off, transfer or withdrawal procedures
1. The customs broker, when dispensing with a representative, shall notify the Administration in
writing accordingly attaching the representative license without prejudice to the administration
right of recording to the customs broker or the authorizing owner of goods in respect to the
customs representative or the owner of goods representative period of service with him.
18 Customs Policies
2. Upon the consent of the Administration, the customs broker representatives and
the owner of goods representatives may transfer from a customs broker or a goods
owner to another providing that the transfer fee is paid after obtaining a consent in
writing from the first customs broker or the first owner of goods to lay off him and
from the new owner to admit him.
3. Where the customs broker license is withdrawn, his representatives shall be suspended
from exercising the profession during the period of withdrawal and may transfer to work
with another customs broker after satisfying the requirements provided for in Para (2).
Article (10)
Penalties
1. Subject to the provision of Article (141) of the customs law and without prejudice to any
civil or penal liability set forth in the law or any other law, the Administration shall have the
jurisdiction over the offences committed by the customs broker against the customs law
and the instructions thereof.
2. The Director General may impose on the customs broker or his representative after
initiating an investigation with him by the competent agency at the Administration the
following penalties commensurable with the offence committed:
a. Notice (warning).
b. A fine not to exceed AED 5000.
c. Suspension of activity for a period not to exceed two years.
d. Cancellation of the license and final prevention from exercising the profession.
Article (11)
Cases of deleting broker’s record from the register
Subject to the provisions herein, the Administration may delete the customs broker or
his representative record in the register in the following cases:
a. Upon a request from the customs broker or his representative.
b. The customs broker found to be unable to exercise the profession for six running months
without a valid excuse.
c. Death or permanent disability to carry out the profession.
d. Disciplinary deletion.
Article (12)
The name of the customer broker registered with the Department of Economic
development or any other government agency shall not be amended or altered unless
the Administration consent in writing is obtained.
This policy shall come into force as from 01/06/2008
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 47 of 2020
This policy sets forth the procedures for the clearance of goods through Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all goods, regardless of their origin or destination.
The following are the main procedures for clearing goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be paid for the applicable duties and taxes.
Goods must be released from Customs once all the required documentation and payments are in order.

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be hazardous or dangerous. The policy applies to all goods that are listed in the Dubai Customs Hazardous and Dangerous Goods List.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting hazardous and dangerous goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Dangerous Goods Declaration Form.
Goods must be transported in accordance with the applicable safety regulations.
Goods must be stored in a secure location.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the declaration and inspection of items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all passengers, regardless of their nationality or origin.
The following are the main procedures for declaring and inspecting items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs:
Passengers must declare all items or belongings that they are carrying with them, including cash, jewelry, and other valuables.
Passengers must present all items or belongings for inspection by Customs officials.
Passengers must pay any applicable duties and taxes on items or belongings that are subject to taxation.
Passengers must be able to provide proof of ownership for any items or belongings that they are carrying with them.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy on Declaration and Inspection of Items or Belongings Accompanying Passengers
This policy sets forth the procedures for the declaration and inspection of items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all passengers, regardless of their nationality or origin.
The following are the main procedures for declaring and inspecting items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs:
Passengers must declare all items or belongings that they are carrying with them, including cash, jewelry, and other valuables.
Passengers must present all items or belongings for inspection by Customs officials.
Passengers must pay any applicable duties and taxes on items or belongings that are subject to taxation.
Passengers must be able to provide proof of ownership for any items or belongings that they are carrying with them.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be antiques. The policy applies to all goods that are more than 100 years old.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting antiques through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including an Antiques Declaration Form.
Goods must be transported in accordance with the applicable safety regulations.
Goods must be stored in a secure location.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be works of art. The policy applies to all goods that are considered to be works of art, including paintings, sculptures, and other objects of artistic value.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting works of art through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Works of Art Declaration Form.
Goods must be transported in accordance with the applicable safety regulations.
Goods must be stored in a secure location.

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be prohibited or restricted. The policy applies to all goods that are listed in the Dubai Customs Prohibited and Restricted Goods List.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting prohibited and restricted goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to confiscation or destruction.
Persons who import or export prohibited or restricted goods may be subject to fines or imprisonment.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the declaration and inspection of items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all passengers, regardless of their nationality or origin.
The following are the main procedures for declaring and inspecting items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs:
Passengers must declare all items or belongings that they are carrying with them, including cash, jewelry, and other valuables.
Passengers must present all items or belongings for inspection by Customs officials.
Passengers must pay any applicable duties and taxes on items or belongings that are subject to taxation.
Passengers must be able to provide proof of ownership for any items or belongings that they are carrying with them.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy on Declaration and Inspection of Items or Belongings Accompanying Passengers
This policy sets forth the procedures for the declaration and inspection of items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all passengers, regardless of their nationality or origin.
The following are the main procedures for declaring and inspecting items or belongings accompanying passengers at Dubai Customs:
Passengers must declare all items or belongings that they are carrying with them, including cash, jewelry, and other valuables.
Passengers must present all items or belongings for inspection by Customs officials.
Passengers must pay any applicable duties and taxes on items or belongings that are subject to taxation.
Passengers must be able to provide proof of ownership for any items or belongings that they are carrying with them.
<END>

Dubai Customs Policy 39e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be antiques. The policy applies to all goods that are more than 100 years old.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting antiques through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including an Antiques Declaration Form.
Goods must be transported in accordance with the applicable safety regulations.
Goods must be stored in a secure location.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 32E
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be works of art. The policy applies to all goods that are considered to be works of art, including paintings, sculptures, and other objects of artistic value.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting works of art through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Works of Art Declaration Form.
Goods must be transported in accordance with the applicable safety regulations.
Goods must be stored in a secure location.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 28
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be prohibited or restricted. The policy applies to all goods that are listed in the Dubai Customs Prohibited and Restricted Goods List.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting prohibited and restricted goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to confiscation or destruction.
Persons who import or export prohibited or restricted goods may be subject to fines or imprisonment.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 27D
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be commercial samples. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for the purpose of demonstration or testing.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting commercial samples through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Commercial Samples Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be exported within a specified period of time.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 37e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be used or second-hand goods. The policy applies to all goods that are more than 12 months old.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting used or second-hand goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Used or Second-Hand Goods Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be in good condition and free of defects.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 34e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be personal effects. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported by individuals for their own use.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting personal effects through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be for personal use and not for commercial purposes.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 49 of 2020
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be food and beverages. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for human consumption.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting food and beverages through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Food and Beverages Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must meet the applicable food safety standards.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 55 of 2023
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be medical devices. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for medical purposes.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting medical devices through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Medical Devices Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must meet the applicable medical device standards.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 41
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be animals and animal products. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for animal husbandry or food purposes.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting animals and animal products through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including an Animals and Animal Products Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must meet the applicable animal health and safety standards.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 50 of 2020
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be temporary imports. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for a temporary period of time, such as for exhibition or repair.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting temporary imports through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Temporary Imports Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be re-exported within a specified period of time.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 51 of 2021
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be free zones. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported into or out of a free zone in Dubai.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting goods into or out of a free zone through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods may be subject to different rules and regulations than goods that are imported or exported into or out of the UAE.
<END>
Dubai Customs Policy 52 of 2021
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be re-exports. The policy applies to all goods that are imported into the UAE and then re-exported out of the UAE within a specified period of time.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting goods as re-exports through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Re-export Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be re-exported within a specified period of time.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 23e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be perishable goods. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported and that have a short shelf life.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting perishable goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Perishable Goods Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be stored in a refrigerated or cool environment.
Goods must be re-exported or consumed within a specified period of time.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be used or second-hand goods. The policy applies to all goods that are more than 12 months old.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting used or second-hand goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Used or Second-Hand Goods Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be in good condition and free of defects.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be personal effects. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported by individuals for their own use.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting personal effects through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be for personal use and not for commercial purposes.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY: Procedure for Goods Detention and Referral to Detention
This policy sets forth the procedures for the detention of goods by Dubai Customs. The policy applies to all goods that are detained by Dubai Customs for any reason.
The following are the main procedures for the detention of goods by Dubai Customs:
Goods may be detained by Dubai Customs for any reason, including suspected violation of customs laws and regulations, non-payment of duties and taxes, or suspected counterfeiting.
Goods that are detained must be presented to Customs for inspection.
The owner or importer of the detained goods must be notified of the detention.
The owner or importer of the detained goods may request a hearing to contest the detention.
If the detention is upheld, the owner or importer of the detained goods may be required to pay duties and taxes, or may have the goods confiscated.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY: Private Customs Warehouses
This policy sets forth the procedures for the establishment and operation of private customs warehouses in Dubai. The policy applies to all persons who wish to establish and operate a private customs warehouse in Dubai.
The following are the main procedures for the establishment and operation of private customs warehouses in Dubai:
Persons who wish to establish and operate a private customs warehouse must obtain a license from Dubai Customs.
Private customs warehouses must be located in designated areas and must meet certain security and safety requirements.
Goods that are stored in private customs warehouses are subject to customs control.
Persons who operate private customs warehouses must be licensed customs agents.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 38e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be temporary imports. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for a temporary period of time, such as for exhibition or repair.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting temporary imports through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Temporary Imports Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be re-exported within a specified period of time.
<END>

The document you provided is a copy of the ATA carnet, which is an international customs document that allows goods to be temporarily imported or exported without paying duties or taxes. The ATA carnet is accepted in over 70 countries, including the United Arab Emirates.
To use the ATA carnet, the importer or exporter must obtain a carnet from their local Chamber of Commerce. The carnet will then be presented to Customs at the time of import or export. Customs will inspect the goods and then stamp the carnet. The carnet must be returned to the Chamber of Commerce when the goods are re-exported.
The ATA carnet is a convenient and cost-effective way to import or export goods temporarily. It can save businesses time and money by avoiding the need to pay duties and taxes.
Here are some additional information about the ATA carnet:
The ATA carnet is valid for one year.
The carnet can be used to import or export goods up to a certain value.
The value of the goods that can be imported or exported under the ATA carnet varies from country to country.
The ATA carnet can be used for a variety of goods, including commercial samples, professional equipment, and exhibition goods.
If you are planning to import or export goods temporarily, I recommend that you contact your local Chamber of Commerce to learn more about the ATA carnet.
<END>
<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 29
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be prohibited or restricted. The policy applies to all goods that are listed in the Dubai Customs Prohibited and Restricted Goods List.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting prohibited and restricted goods through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods may be subject to confiscation or destruction.
Persons who import or export prohibited or restricted goods may be subject to fines or imprisonment.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Mechanism for Determining the Value of Passengers’ Cargo
This policy sets forth the procedures for determining the value of passengers’ cargo. The policy applies to all cargo that is brought into or taken out of the United Arab Emirates by passengers.
The following are the main procedures for determining the value of passengers’ cargo:
The value of passengers’ cargo is determined based on the following factors:
The weight of the cargo
The type of cargo
The country of origin of the cargo
The market value of the cargo
If the value of the cargo cannot be determined based on the above factors, Customs may use other methods to determine the value, such as:
Appraising the cargo by a customs appraiser
Using the declared value of the cargo
Using the market value of similar goods
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Dubai Customs Policy 19e
This policy sets forth the procedures for the import and export of goods that are considered to be commercial samples. The policy applies to all goods that are imported or exported for the purpose of demonstration or testing.
The following are the main procedures for importing and exporting commercial samples through Dubai Customs:
Goods must be declared to Customs at the time of arrival or departure.
Goods must be presented to Customs for inspection.
Goods must be accompanied by the required documentation, including a Commercial Samples Declaration Form.
Goods may be subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax.
Goods must be exported within a specified period of time.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY 
Title: Customs Declaration Policy
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to all goods imported into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all goods imported into the UAE are declared to customs in a timely and accurate manner.
Key Definitions:
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for declaring all goods imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
The importer must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The country of origin of the goods
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare goods to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY  
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Import of Goods Through the Customs Proker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the import of goods through the Customs Proker, which is a digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process and make it more efficient for importers.
Key Definitions:
Customs Broker: A digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for using the Customs Broker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
The customs authority is responsible for reviewing customs declarations and collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
To import goods through the Customs Broker, the importer must first create an account on the platform.
Once the importer has created an account, they can submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
The customs authority will review the customs declarations and collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to use the Customs Broker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY 
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Export of Goods Through the Customs Broker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the export of goods through the Customs Broker, which is a digital platform that allows exporters to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the export process and make it more efficient for exporters.
Key Definitions:
Customs Broker: A digital platform that allows exporters to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the export of goods from the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on exported goods.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Declaration Policy
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to all goods imported into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that all goods imported into the UAE are declared to customs in a timely and accurate manner.
Key Definitions:
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for declaring all goods imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
The importer must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The country of origin of the goods
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare goods to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Import of Goods Through the Customs Broker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the import of goods through the Customs Broker, which is a digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process and make it more efficient for importers.
Key Definitions:
Customs Broker: A digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for using the CustomsBroker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
The customs authority is responsible for reviewing customs declarations and collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
To import goods through the Customs Broker, the importer must first create an account on the platform.
Once the importer has created an account, they can submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
The customs authority will review the customs declarations and collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to use the Customs Proker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Export of Goods Through the Customs Proker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the export of goods through the Customs Proker, which is a digital platform that allows exporters to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the export process and make it more efficient for exporters.
Key Definitions:
Customs Proker: A digital platform that allows exporters to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the export of goods from the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on exported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Declaration Policy for the Import of Used Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2017
Scope: This policy applies to the import of used personal effects into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process for used personal effects and make it more efficient for individuals.
Key Definitions:
Used personal effects: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is used by an individual and is being imported into the UAE for personal use.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of used personal effects into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for declaring all used personal effects imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported used personal effects.
Procedures:
The importer must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the used personal effects
The value of the used personal effects
The country of origin of the used personal effects
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported used personal effects.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare used personal effects to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Declaration Policy for the Import of Items or Belongings Accompanying Passengers
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the import of items or belongings accompanying passengers into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process for items or belongings accompanying passengers and make it more efficient for individuals.
Key Definitions:
Items or belongings accompanying passengers: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is being imported into the UAE by a passenger for personal use.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of items or belongings accompanying passengers into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The passenger is responsible for declaring all items or belongings accompanying them into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported items or belongings accompanying passengers.
Procedures:
The passenger must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the passenger
The description of the items or belongings accompanying the passenger
The value of the items or belongings accompanying the passenger
The country of origin of the items or belongings accompanying the passenger
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported items or belongings accompanying the passenger.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare items or belongings accompanying them to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Declaration Policy for the Export of Goods
Effective Date: 1 January 2015
Scope: This policy applies to the export of goods from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the export process and make it more efficient for exporters.
Key Definitions:
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the export of goods from the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on exported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Declaration Policy for the Import of Used Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the import of used personal effects into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process for used personal effects and make it more efficient for individuals.
Key Definitions:
Used personal effects: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is used by an individual and is being imported into the UAE for personal use.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of used personal effects into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for declaring all used personal effects imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported used personal effects.
Procedures:
The importer must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the used personal effects
The value of the used personal effects
The country of origin of the used personal effects
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported used personal effects.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare used personal effects to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Import of Goods Through the Customs Proker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the import of goods through the Customs Proker, which is a digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process and make it more efficient for importers.
Key Definitions:
Customs Proker: A digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for using the Customs Proker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
The customs authority is responsible for reviewing customs declarations and collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
To import goods through the Customs Proker, the importer must first create an account on the platform.
Once the importer has created an account, they can submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
The customs authority will review the customs declarations and collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to use the Customs Proker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Export of Used Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the export of used personal effects from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the export process and make it more efficient for exporters.
Key Definitions:
Used personal effects: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is used by an individual and is being exported from the UAE.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the export of goods from the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on exported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The exporter is responsible for declaring all used personal effects exported from the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on exported used personal effects.
Procedures:
The exporter must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of export.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the exporter
The description of the used personal effects
The value of the used personal effects
The country of destination of the used personal effects
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the exported used personal effects.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare used personal effects to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Import of Used Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the import of used personal effects into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process for used personal effects and make it more efficient for individuals.
Key Definitions:
Used personal effects: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is used by an individual and is being imported into the UAE for personal use.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of used personal effects into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for declaring all used personal effects imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on imported used personal effects.
Procedures:
The importer must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of import.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the used personal effects
The value of the used personal effects
The country of origin of the used personal effects
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the imported used personal effects.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare used personal effects to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Import of Goods Through the Customs Proker
Effective Date: 1 January 2023
Scope: This policy applies to the import of goods through the Customs Proker, which is a digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the import process and make it more efficient for importers.
Key Definitions:
Customs Proker: A digital platform that allows importers to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the import of goods into the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for using the Customs Proker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
The customs authority is responsible for reviewing customs declarations and collecting customs duties and VAT on imported goods.
Procedures:
To import goods through the Customs Proker, the importer must first create an account on the platform.
Once the importer has created an account, they can submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT online.
The customs authority will review the customs declarations and collect customs duties and VAT on the imported goods.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to use the Customs Proker to submit customs declarations and pay customs duties and VAT on imported goods may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Export of Used Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the export of used personal effects from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to streamline the export process and make it more efficient for exporters.
Key Definitions:
Used personal effects: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials, that is used by an individual and is being exported from the UAE.
Customs Declaration: A document that is submitted to customs to declare the export of goods from the UAE.
Customs Duty: A tax that is levied on exported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The exporter is responsible for declaring all used personal effects exported from the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for collecting customs duties and VAT on exported used personal effects.
Procedures:
The exporter must submit a customs declaration to customs at the time of export.
The customs declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the exporter
The description of the used personal effects
The value of the used personal effects
The country of destination of the used personal effects
The customs authority will review the customs declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the customs declaration is approved, the customs authority will collect customs duties and VAT on the exported used personal effects.
Penalties:
Any person who fails to declare used personal effects to customs in a timely and accurate manner may be subject to a fine.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Detention of Goods
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the detention of goods at the borders of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that goods that are imported or exported into the UAE are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Key Definitions:
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Detention: The act of preventing goods from being released from customs custody.
Seizure: The act of taking possession of goods by the customs authority.
Penalties: Any punishment that can be imposed on a person who violates customs laws and regulations.
Responsibilities:
The customs authority is responsible for detaining goods that are suspected of being in violation of customs laws and regulations.
The importer or exporter of the goods is responsible for providing the customs authority with any information or documentation that is requested in order to determine whether the goods are in violation of customs laws and regulations.
Procedures:
If the customs authority suspects that goods are in violation of customs laws and regulations, they may detain the goods.
The customs authority will notify the importer or exporter of the detention and the reasons for the detention.
The importer or exporter has the right to challenge the detention and to provide the customs authority with any information or documentation that they believe will support their challenge.
The customs authority will review the information and documentation that is provided by the importer or exporter and will make a decision on whether to release the goods or to seize the goods.
If the customs authority decides to release the goods, they will be released to the importer or exporter.
If the customs authority decides to seize the goods, they will be taken into the custody of the customs authority.
The importer or exporter of the seized goods may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates customs laws and regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Temporary Importation of Goods
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the temporary importation of goods into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into the UAE for a variety of purposes, such as exhibitions, repairs, or testing.
Key Definitions:
Temporary importation: The importation of goods into the UAE for a limited period of time, after which the goods must be re-exported.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Temporary Admission: A customs procedure that allows goods to be temporarily imported into a country without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for obtaining a temporary admission permit from the customs authority before importing the goods.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are re-exported within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To obtain a temporary admission permit, the importer must submit an application to the customs authority.
The application must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The purpose of the temporary importation
The customs authority will review the application and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the application is approved, the customs authority will issue a temporary admission permit.
The importer must present the temporary admission permit to customs officials when importing the goods.
The goods must be re-exported within the specified time period.
If the goods are not re-exported within the specified time period, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the temporary importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Return of Goods
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the return of goods to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from other countries.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the return of goods to the UAE for a variety of reasons, such as damage, defect, or change of mind.
Key Definitions:
Return of goods: The importation of goods into the UAE that were previously exported from the UAE.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Re-importation: The importation of goods into a country that were previously exported from the country.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for obtaining a re-importation permit from the customs authority before returning the goods to the UAE.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are returned within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To obtain a re-importation permit, the importer must submit an application to the customs authority.
The application must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The reason for the return
The customs authority will review the application and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the application is approved, the customs authority will issue a re-importation permit.
The importer must present the re-importation permit to customs officials when returning the goods to the UAE.
The goods must be returned within the specified time period.
If the goods are not returned within the specified time period, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the re-importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Mechanism for Determining the Value of Passengers' Cargo
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the determination of the value of passengers' cargo that is imported into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the value of passengers' cargo is accurately determined in order to collect the appropriate customs duties and taxes.
Key Definitions:
Passengers' cargo: Goods that are imported into the UAE by passengers.
Value: The price of goods at the time of importation.
Customs duties: Taxes that are levied on imported goods.
Value Added Tax (VAT): A tax that is levied on the supply of goods and services in the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The customs authority is responsible for determining the value of passengers' cargo.
The passenger is responsible for providing the customs authority with any information or documentation that is requested in order to determine the value of the cargo.
Procedures:
The customs authority will determine the value of passengers' cargo based on the following factors:
The cost of the goods
The freight charges
The customs authority may also request additional information or documentation from the passenger in order to determine the value of the cargo.
Once the value of the cargo has been determined, the customs authority will collect the appropriate customs duties and taxes.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the customs regulations regarding the determination of the value of passengers' cargo may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Temporary Importation of Commercial Samples
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the temporary importation of commercial samples into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of commercial samples into the UAE for a variety of purposes, such as exhibitions, trade shows, or market research.
Key Definitions:
Temporary importation: The importation of goods into the UAE for a limited period of time, after which the goods must be re-exported.
Commercial samples: Goods that are imported into the UAE for the purpose of promoting or selling a product.
Temporary Admission: A customs procedure that allows goods to be temporarily imported into a country without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for obtaining a temporary admission permit from the customs authority before importing the goods.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are re-exported within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To obtain a temporary admission permit, the importer must submit an application to the customs authority.
The application must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The purpose of the temporary importation
The customs authority will review the application and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the application is approved, the customs authority will issue a temporary admission permit.
The importer must present the temporary admission permit to customs officials when importing the goods.
The goods must be re-exported within the specified time period.
If the goods are not re-exported within the specified time period, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the temporary importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Broker Policy
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the licensing and regulation of customs brokers in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that customs brokers are qualified and competent to provide customs clearance services in the UAE.
Key Definitions:
Customs broker: A person who is licensed by the customs authority to provide customs clearance services.
Customs clearance: The process of obtaining the necessary permits and approvals from the customs authority in order to import or export goods into the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The customs authority is responsible for licensing and regulating customs brokers.
Customs brokers are responsible for providing customs clearance services in accordance with the laws and regulations of the UAE.
Procedures:
To become a licensed customs broker, an individual must meet the following requirements:
Be a UAE national or a resident of the UAE
Have a high school diploma or equivalent
Have completed a training course in customs clearance
Pass an examination administered by the customs authority
Once an individual has been licensed as a customs broker, they are authorized to provide customs clearance services to clients.
Customs brokers must comply with all applicable laws and regulations when providing customs clearance services.
Customs brokers are subject to disciplinary action by the customs authority for violations of the laws and regulations.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the customs broker regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Export of Goods
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the export of goods from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that goods that are exported from the UAE are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Key Definitions:
Export: The removal of goods from the UAE for the purpose of sale or use in another country.
Goods: Any tangible object, including but not limited to, merchandise, products, and raw materials.
Export declaration: A document that is submitted to the customs authority when exporting goods from the UAE.
Responsibilities:
The exporter is responsible for ensuring that the goods that are exported from the UAE are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
The exporter is also responsible for submitting an export declaration to the customs authority.
Procedures:
To export goods from the UAE, the exporter must submit an export declaration to the customs authority.
The export declaration must include the following information:
The name and address of the exporter
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The destination of the goods
The customs authority will review the export declaration and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the export declaration is approved, the customs authority will release the goods for export.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the export regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Proof of Origin and Settlement of Disputes Policy
Effective Date: 1 January 2016
Scope: This policy applies to the proof of origin of goods that are imported into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to ensure that goods that are imported into the UAE are eligible for preferential tariff treatment.
Key Definitions:
Proof of origin: A document that is submitted to the customs authority to prove the origin of goods.
Preferential tariff treatment: A reduction in customs duties that is granted to goods that are imported from certain countries.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for providing proof of origin for goods that are imported into the UAE.
The customs authority is responsible for verifying the proof of origin and for granting preferential tariff treatment to goods that are eligible.
Procedures:
To import goods into the UAE and to be eligible for preferential tariff treatment, the importer must provide proof of origin.
The proof of origin must be in the form of a certificate of origin.
The certificate of origin must be issued by a Chamber of Commerce or a similar organization in the country of origin of the goods.
The customs authority will verify the certificate of origin and will grant preferential tariff treatment to goods that are eligible.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the proof of origin regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
Settlement of Disputes:
If there is a dispute between the importer and the customs authority regarding the proof of origin, the dispute will be settled through a process of negotiation.
If the dispute cannot be resolved through negotiation, the dispute will be referred to a panel of experts.
The panel of experts will make a decision on the matter and the decision of the panel will be final.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Temporary Importation of Goods for Exhibition or Trade Show Purposes
Effective Date: 1 January 2020
Scope: This policy applies to the temporary importation of goods into the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for the purpose of exhibition or trade show.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into the UAE for the purpose of exhibition or trade show.
Key Definitions:
Temporary importation: The importation of goods into the UAE for a limited period of time, after which the goods must be re-exported.
Exhibition or trade show: An event where goods are displayed for the purpose of sale or promotion.
Temporary Admission: A customs procedure that allows goods to be temporarily imported into a country without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for obtaining a temporary admission permit from the customs authority before importing the goods.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are re-exported within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To obtain a temporary admission permit, the importer must submit an application to the customs authority.
The application must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The purpose of the temporary importation
The customs authority will review the application and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the application is approved, the customs authority will issue a temporary admission permit.
The importer must present the temporary admission permit to customs officials when importing the goods.
The goods must be re-exported within the specified time period.
If the goods are not re-exported within the specified time period, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the temporary importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Temporary Importation of Goods for Repair or Testing Purposes
Effective Date: 1 January 2020
Scope: This policy applies to the temporary importation of goods into the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for the purpose of repair or testing.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into the UAE for the purpose of repair or testing.
Key Definitions:
Temporary importation: The importation of goods into the UAE for a limited period of time, after which the goods must be re-exported.
Repair or testing: The process of fixing or testing goods.
Temporary Admission: A customs procedure that allows goods to be temporarily imported into a country without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for obtaining a temporary admission permit from the customs authority before importing the goods.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are re-exported within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To obtain a temporary admission permit, the importer must submit an application to the customs authority.
The application must include the following information:
The name and address of the importer
The description of the goods
The value of the goods
The purpose of the temporary importation
The customs authority will review the application and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the application is approved, the customs authority will issue a temporary admission permit.
The importer must present the temporary admission permit to customs officials when importing the goods.
The goods must be re-exported within the specified time period.
If the goods are not re-exported within the specified time period, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the temporary importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Procedure Policy for the Temporary Importation of Personal Effects
Effective Date: 1 January 2020
Scope: This policy applies to the temporary importation of personal effects into the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of personal effects into the UAE by individuals who are moving to or visiting the UAE.
Key Definitions:
Personal effects: Goods that are used for personal use or consumption and are not for sale or commercial use.
Temporary importation: The importation of goods into the UAE for a limited period of time, after which the goods must be re-exported.
Responsibilities:
The importer is responsible for ensuring that the goods that are imported into the UAE are for personal use or consumption and are not for sale or commercial use.
The importer is also responsible for ensuring that the goods are re-exported within the specified time period.
Procedures:
To import personal effects into the UAE, the importer must present the goods to customs officials at the port of entry.
Customs officials will review the goods and may request additional information or documentation.
Once the goods have been cleared by customs, the importer is free to use them in the UAE.
Personal effects must be re-exported within one year of the date of importation.
If the goods are not re-exported within one year, the importer may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the temporary importation regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Policy No. (52/2021) Implementation of the TIR Carnet (International Road Transport)
Effective Date: 1 March 2021
Scope: This policy applies to the use of the TIR Carnet in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the international movement of goods under the TIR system.
Key Definitions:
TIR Carnet: A document that is used to facilitate the international movement of goods under the TIR system.
TIR system: A system that allows goods to be moved across borders without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The TIR Carnet is issued by the International Road Transport Union (IRU).
The TIR Carnet is used by the customs authorities of countries that are members of the TIR system.
Procedures:
To use the TIR Carnet, the goods must be declared to customs at the port of entry.
The customs authorities will verify the goods and the TIR Carnet.
Once the goods have been cleared by customs, the TIR Carnet will be stamped.
The goods can then be transported across borders without paying customs duties or taxes.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the TIR regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
Here are some additional information about the TIR Carnet:
The TIR Carnet is a green booklet that is used to facilitate the international movement of goods under the TIR system.
The TIR system is a customs convention that allows goods to be moved across borders without paying customs duties or taxes.
The TIR Carnet is issued by the International Road Transport Union (IRU).
The TIR Carnet is used by the customs authorities of countries that are members of the TIR system.
To use the TIR Carnet, the goods must be declared to customs at the port of entry. The customs authorities will verify the goods and the TIR Carnet. Once the goods have been cleared by customs, the TIR Carnet will be stamped. The goods can then be transported across borders without paying customs duties or taxes.
The TIR Carnet is a valuable tool for businesses that move goods internationally. It can help to save time and money, and it can also help to reduce the risk of delays and problems at customs.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Title: Customs Policy No. (53/2022) Implementation of the ATA Carnet (Temporary Admission)
Effective Date: 1 January 2022
Scope: This policy applies to the use of the ATA Carnet in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into the UAE under the ATA system.
Key Definitions:
ATA Carnet: A document that is used to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into the UAE under the ATA system.
ATA system: A system that allows goods to be temporarily imported into countries without paying customs duties or taxes.
Responsibilities:
The ATA Carnet is issued by the World Customs Organization (WCO).
The ATA Carnet is used by the customs authorities of countries that are members of the ATA system.
Procedures:
To use the ATA Carnet, the goods must be declared to customs at the port of entry.
The customs authorities will verify the goods and the ATA Carnet.
Once the goods have been cleared by customs, the ATA Carnet will be stamped.
The goods can then be used in the UAE for a limited period of time without paying customs duties or taxes.
Penalties:
Any person who violates the ATA regulations may be subject to penalties, including fines and imprisonment.
The amount of the fine will be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
The length of the imprisonment will also be determined by the customs authority and will depend on the severity of the violation.
Here are some additional information about the ATA Carnet:
The ATA Carnet is a green booklet that is used to facilitate the temporary importation of goods into countries under the ATA system.
The ATA system is a customs convention that allows goods to be temporarily imported into countries without paying customs duties or taxes.
The ATA Carnet is issued by the World Customs Organization (WCO).
The ATA Carnet is used by the customs authorities of countries that are members of the ATA system.
To use the ATA Carnet, the goods must be declared to customs at the port of entry. The customs authorities will verify the goods and the ATA Carnet. Once the goods have been cleared by customs, the ATA Carnet will be stamped. The goods can then be used in the UAE for a limited period of time without paying customs duties or taxes.
The ATA Carnet is a valuable tool for businesses that move goods internationally. It can help to save time and money, and it can also help to reduce the risk of delays and problems at customs.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY 
Policy Name: Dubai Customs Policy 51 of 2021
Effective Date: 1 January 2022
Scope: This policy applies to all goods imported into or exported from the Emirate of Dubai.
Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to regulate the import and export of goods in order to protect the health, safety, and security of the Emirate of Dubai and its residents.
Key Provisions:
All goods imported into or exported from the Emirate of Dubai must be declared to Customs.
Goods that are prohibited or restricted from import or export must be declared to Customs and may be subject to confiscation or other penalties.
Goods that are subject to duty must be paid for before they can be released from Customs.
Customs may inspect goods at any time.
Customs may require that goods be accompanied by certain documentation, such as a bill of lading or a certificate of origin.
Enforcement: This policy will be enforced by Dubai Customs.
Penalties: Penalties for violating this policy may include confiscation of goods, fines, and imprisonment.
<A> The restricted goods are those that require a permit from Customs before they can be imported or exported. Some examples of restricted goods include alcohol, tobacco, and certain types of food.
<Q> What is the duty rate on goods imported into Dubai?
<A> The duty rate on goods imported into Dubai varies depending on the type of good. Some goods are exempt from duty, while others are subject to a low duty rate. The duty rate for most goods is between 5% and 10%.

<Q> How do I declare goods to Customs?
<A> You can declare goods to Customs online, by mail, or in person at a Customs office. You will need to provide the following information when you declare goods:
- The name and description of the goods
- The value of the goods
- The country of origin of the goods
- The mode of transportation
<Q> How do I pay duty on goods imported into Dubai?
<A> You can pay duty on goods imported into Dubai online, by mail, or in person at a Customs office. You can pay with a credit card, debit card, or cash.
<Q> What are the penalties for violating Dubai Customs regulations?
<A> The penalties for violating Dubai Customs regulations vary depending on the severity of the violation. Some common penalties include confiscation of goods, fines, and imprisonment.
<END>

<POLICY> Type: POLICY
Policy Details:
The amendments include changes to the following articles:
Article 10, which deals with the submission of customs declarations
Article 11, which deals with the acceptance of customs declarations
Article 12, which deals with the inspection of goods
Article 13, which deals with the issuance of customs clearance orders
Article 14, which deals with the refusal to clear goods
Details
Article 10 has been amended to require that customs declarations be submitted to the customs office in writing or electronically. The declaration must be signed by the declarant or his authorized representative, and it must contain the following information:
The name and address of the declarant
The name and address of the consignor and consignee
The description of the goods, their quantity, weight, and value
The customs tariff heading
The place of origin of the goods
The mode of transport
The customs procedure
<END>

<GUIDE>
Type: Customs GUIDE
Title: Client Registration 
How client will be registered in dubai customs ?
Any business licensed by a competent Authority in the UAE or in the GCC States may register their business with Dubai Customs using the online services through Dubai Trade Portal www.dubaitrade.ae to avail the various services of Dubai Customs. While registering, the client needs to specify the type of business that they operate which must be matching with the activities of the license.

3.1. License Types and Issuing Authority
The types of Licenses are classified into Commercial, Industrial, Professional, Intelaq, Free Zone and Government Notification.

3.2. Business Types - Trading (Importer/Exporter)
Time limit for Documents submission
- The Declarations and the attachments must be submitted to the designated Customs Office within the period of 14 days from the date of processing the declaration.
- In case of the documents are being submitted by exceeding the grace period of 14 days from the date of processing the declaration, a Late Fee of AED 50 shall be imposed on each day of delayed submission to the maximum period of 90 days.
- In the event of failure to submit the Documents within the period of 90 days, further administrative actions shall be taken and also a fine and penalty may be imposed.
- Any claim for refund of duty or deposit shall not be accepted until the client completes the process of Documents submission as stated above.
For more details about fines and penalties refer to Appendix C

what are the Offices for Documents submission ?
The Customs Offices for Documents submission are designated in accordance with the cargo channel and Customs locations.
Refer to the Appendix J –Documents Submittal for more details
15.8. e-Archival of Customs Declarations

Dubai Customs shall keep original copies of Customs Declarations and their attachments which will be archived in e-Archive System. The clients may request to retrieve the copies of the Documents after submitting the original copies to Customs. They can request through the e-Archive system 7/24
to obtain a softcopy of their Customs Declarations and their attachments.
An e-Archive service fee of AED (5) shall be collected when the customs declarations process is completed.

Title: CUSTOMS Procedures
15.9. What are Customs Procedures and Types of Declarations ?
A Declarant must specify the regime type of the Declaration while submitting for clearance.
 The following are the regime types in Declarations:
- Import
- Export
- Transit
- Temporary Admission
- Transfer
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: IMPORTING GOODS
15.10. What is Importation 
It's the Process of Importing goods into Dubai or other United Arab Emarates.
What are Declaration Types are associated with Importation ?
- Import to Local from ROW (Rest Of World)
- Import to Local from FZ (Free Zone)
- Import to Local from CW(Customs Warehouse)
- Import to Local from GCC (statistical Import)
- Import for Re Export to Local from ROW
- Import for Re Export to Local from FZ
- Import for Re Export to Local from CW
- Import to CW from ROW
- Import to CW from FZ
- Import to CW from Local (after Temporary Admission)
- Import after Temporary Admission

15.10.1. What is Import to Local from Rest of World (ROW) Declaration
This Declaration type deals with the goods imported directly by an Importer (commercial, Personal or Courier) of UAE or GCC states from the ROW.
Declaration can be submitted through online services by a registered Mirsal User or by availing the service of an authorized Customs Broker.
Non-Commercial Customers can use the Bureau Services for Declaration submission from the designated Customs Offices.
what are the Required Documents for Import to Local from Rest of World ?
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
- Commercial Invoice
- Certificate of Origin
- Packing List
- Delivery Order (for Sea)
- Permits wherever applicable.
Requirements of Documents will vary according to Cargo Channel

15.10.2. What is  Import to Local from FZ Declaration
When the goods are imported to local from FZ, the Declaration type of “Import to Local from Free Zone” needs to be cleared on payment of applicable duty. Declaration must be submitted by a registered local Importer or an authorised Customs Broker.
What are the Required Documents for  Import to Local from FZ Declaration ?
- Delivery Advice
- Invoice
- Packing List
- Permit for Restricted Goods (If any) from competent authority.

15.10.3. What is Import to Local from CW Declaration :
The goods deposited in a Customs warehouse can be taken out to local market on payment of applicable Customs Duty and taxes. Declaration can be submitted by the Customs Warehouse Licensee or a registered Importer being the Owner of the Goods.
Required Documents
- Invoice
- Packing list

15.10.4. What is  Import to Local from GCC (Statistical Import) 
Goods can be moved intra-GCC Customs Offices allowing passage of the foreign goods from one member state to the other. A Statistical Export Declaration must have been cleared from the exporting GCC country for inward movements of such goods and a copy of the same must be submitted to the Customs Office of importing country carrying the “Makhasa Stamp” (set-off mechanism) on the Declaration in order to avoid the repeated payment of Customs Duty at the destination Country. The Declaration type “Import to Local from GCC” needs to be cleared for such transaction.
What are the Required Documents for Import to Local from GCC 
- Delivery Order (for Sea Channel)
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
- Land Manifest/Truck way bill for Land Channel
- Commercial Invoice
- Packing List
- Statistical Export Bill cleared from an exporting country of GCC with the endorsement of “Makasa Claim Number (MCN)” or “Makasa Stamp” in the case of duty paid goods are imported.
Requirements of Documents will vary according to Cargo Channel

15.10.5. What is Import for Re Export to Local from ROW
Goods can be imported with the intention of re-exporting them as a whole or partially to another country. A Deposit or Guarantee equivalent to the applicable tariff amount on the goods shall be secured in lieu of Customs Duty. For this procedure, the Declaration Type “Import for Re Export to Local from ROW” needs to be cleared. Currently this declaration is limited to those with a value higher than AED 20000 except in case of vehicles.

What are the Required Documents for Import for Re Export to Local from ROW ?
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air Channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
- Commercial Invoice
- Certificate of Origin
- Packing List
- Delivery Order
Requirements of Documents will vary according to Cargo Channel

15.10.6. What is Import for Re-export to Local from FZ
An Importer in U.A.E can import goods from FZ to Local for the purpose of Re-Exporting them to Rest of the World (ROW) other than GCC States. 
The customs duties levied on goods being imported under such procedure shall be secured by Standing Bank Guarantee or deposit. The Declaration type for such transactions is “Import for Re-Export from the FZ”. Declaration must be submitted by a registered local Importer or an authorised Customs Broker.
Refer the Customs Policy nos. 34 and 37 issued in 2010 for rules and regulation of above procedure.
What are the  Required Documents for Import for Re-export to Local from FZ ?
- Delivery Advice
- Invoice
- Packing List
- Permit for Restricted Goods (if any) from competent authority.

15.10.7. What is Import for Re-export to Local from CW
The goods admitted into a Customs Warehouse may be imported to Local for the purpose of Re-Exporting them to Rest of the World (ROW) other than GCC States. The customs Duties levied on goods being imported under such procedure shall be secured by Standing Bank Guarantee or Deposit.
The Declaration type for such transaction is “Import for Re-Export to Local from CW”. 
Declaration can be submitted by the Customs Warehouse Licensee or a registered local Importer being the owner of the goods.
Refer the Customs Policy nos. 34 and 37of 2010 for rules and regulation of above procedure.
What are the Required Documents for Import for Re-export to Local from CW ?
- Invoice
- Packing List

15.10.8. What is  Import to CW from ROW
A licensed customs warehouse owner can import goods into the warehouse on deferred payment of duty until the goods are taken out for local consumption.
For such procedure, the Declaration type “Import to CW from ROW” must be cleared. There are two types of Customs Warehouses, namely Private Customs Warehouse and Public Customs Warehouse.
What are the Required Documents for Import to CW from ROW ?
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
- Commercial Invoice
- Certificate of Origin
- Packing List
- Delivery Order (For Sea)
- Permits wherever applicable.
Requirements of Documents will vary according to Cargo Channel

15.10.9. What is Import to CW from FZ
Goods can be imported into a Customs Warehouse from a Free Zone located in Dubai by clearing this Declaration. Declaration must be submitted by a Customs Warehouse Licensee being the Importer of the goods.
What are the Required Documents for Import to CW from FZ ?
- Delivery Advice
- Invoice
- Packing List
- Permit for Restricted Goods (If any) from the competent authority

15.10.10. What is  Import to CW from Local (after Temporary Admission)
The goods admitted temporarily into local from CW on certain reasons such as exhibition, repair and return, projects etc. For a specific period of time can be re-imported to CW within the permitted period.
What are the Required Documents for Import to CW from Local ?
- Copy of Temporary Admission Bill
- Invoice
- Packing List

15.10.11. What is Import after Temporary Admission
The status of the goods temporarily admitted shall be terminated upon the expiry of the permitted period. Goods can be consumed for local use after paying the applicable Customs Duty and Fees under Import Procedure. 
All other rules of Import procedure are applicable to the clearance of the good.
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: EXPORTING OF GOODS
15.11. Exportation
While exporting, the exporters of goods or their Agents must declare them in detail. Refer to Exportation part in chapter II of GCC Customs Law for more details. In the case of exporting any restricted goods, the exporter must obtain required approval from the competent authority and submit to Customs.
Following declarations types are under Export Regime :
- Export from Local to ROW
- Export from Local to Dubai FZ
- Export from Local to GCC (statistical export)
- Export from CW to ROW
- Export from CW to FZ
- Re Export to ROW (after import for re- export)
- Re Export to FZ (after Import for Re Export)
- Return to FZ after Temporary Admission
- Return to ROW after Temporary Admission
- Temporary Export from Local to ROW
- Temporary Export from Local to FZ

15.11.1. What is Export from Local to ROW
For exportation of local goods to a country of ROW other than a GCC state the above declaration type is required to be cleared.
What are the Required Documents for Export from Local to ROW ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List
- Export Permit from a controlling authority (applicable only to restricted exports)

15.11.2. What is Export from Local to Dubai FZ
This Declaration is for exporting goods from U.A.E local market to a Free Zone in Dubai. The exporter or his broker can submit this declaration. However, the receiving Free Zone client must acknowledge the declaration through the acknowledgement service available on Dubai Trade.
What are the Required Documents for Export from Local to Dubai FZ ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.3. What is Export from Local to GCC (statistical export)
Any foreign goods previously imported to local from ROW can be exported to another GCC state on statistical Export Declaration. Declarant can avoid repeated payment of Duty to the Customs Office of destination of GCC state provided that the statistical export declaration carries MAKAS stamp. 
Refer to Makasa Process in this guide for more details.
What are the Required Documents for Export from Local to GCC ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List
- Copy of Import Declaration (for Makasa Process)

15.11.4. What is Export from CW to ROW
The goods admitted into a Customs Warehouse may be exported to any of the countries in ROW. Export Customs procedure can be completed by clearing the above Declaration Type.
What are the Required Documents for Export from CW to ROW ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.5. What is Export from CW to FZ
The foreign goods maybe exported from a Customs Warehouse to a Free Zone in Dubai subject to the applicable export restrictions. The Exporter must complete the required Customs Procedure to admit the goods into Free zone.
What are the Required Documents for Export from CW to FZ ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.6. What is Re Export to ROW (after import for re- export)
The foreign goods previously imported on declaration types of Import for Re- export can be re-exported to ROW other than GCC states by clearing this declaration..
Customs inspection and exit certification shall be required to claim the refund of security deposit or guarantee paid against the Import for Re-Export Declaration. 
The guarantee or deposit can be claimed back only if the imported goods have been exported within six months from the date of Import for Re-Export Declaration.
What are the Required Documents for Re Export to ROW ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.7. What is Re Export to FZ (after Import for Re Export)
The foreign goods previously imported on declaration types of Import for Re- export can be re-exported to FZ by clearing this Declaration. 
Customs inspection and exit certification shall be required to claim the refund of security deposit or guarantee paid against the Import for Re-Export Declaration.
The guarantee or deposit can be claimed back only if the imported goods have been exported within six months from the date of Import for Re-Export Declaration.
What are the Required Documents for Re Export to FZ ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.8. What is Return to ROW after Temporary Admission
The goods brought on Temporary Admission must be returned to ROW within the stipulated time period. In case of any extension is required on permitted time period, Customs approval must be obtained prior to the expiry of the time limit.
Refer to Customs Policy 33 for more details
What are the Required Documents for Return to ROW after Temporary Admission ?
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.9. What is Temporary Export from Local to ROW
This declaration can be cleared for the goods to be exported on temporary basis for the purposes conducting Exhibition, Completing any Projects, Repairing or Servicing, Processing etc. The Exporter should complete the Customs inspections prior to exporting and while re-importing the Goods to local as well.
What are the Required Documents for Temporary Export from Local to ROW ? 
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.11.10. What is Temporary Export from Local to FZ
This declaration can be cleared for the goods to be exported on temporary basis from local to Free Zone for the purposes of Repairing or Servicing, Reconditioning, Processing etc. 
The Exporter should complete the Customs inspections prior to exporting and while re-importing the Goods to local as well.
What are the Required Documents for Temporary Export from Local to FZ
- Export Invoice
- Packing List
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: TRANSITING OF GOODS
15.12. What is Transit ?
Goods destined to elsewhere in the rest of the world but landing in Dubai may be moved to the destination under transit procedure. Normally customs clear such transit movements against payment of deposits or under guarantees and may take additional guarantees if necessary. Following Declaration Types are required to be cleared under Transit Regime for various transit movements.
What are Transit types ?
- Transit (ROW to ROW)
- FZ Transit In
- FZ Transit Out
- FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market
- FZ Transit between Dubai based FZ

15.12.1. Transit (ROW to ROW)
The goods in-Transit from one country of ROW to another country of ROW can be transported through Dubai Customs territory under Customs control.
The permitted period of transit is 30 days from the date of clearance of the transit declaration.
For more details, please refer to Customs Policy No. 35 of 2011
What are the Required Documents
- Copy of Transport Document
- Delivery order

15.12.2.What is FZ Transit In ?
The foreign goods originated from any country may be brought into the free zones without being subject to customs duties or taxes. The owner of the goods in the Documents shall be a Free Zone Licensee. For such entry of goods in to Free zone, above Customs Declaration type must be cleared.
However, entry of some goods is forbidden to the free zones in accordance with the Article 80 of GCC Customs Law 
What are the Required Documents
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel 
- Commercial Invoice
- Certificate of Origin
- Packing List
- Delivery Order

15.12.3. What is FZ Transit Out ?
Export of goods stored in the free zone to the rest of the world is cleared on this declaration against deposits which is refunded on production of proof of export.
Even if the goods are exported directly from the free zone without paying any deposits, the exporter must submit the proof of export failing which customs will
charge a penalty of %10 of the value of goods.
What are the Required Documents
- Delivery Advice
- Export Invoice
- Packing List

15.12.4.What is FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market ?
The goods from a GCC state or other emirate or local market may be brought into the free zones without being subject to customs duties or taxes. 
The owner of the goods in the Documents shall be a Free Zone Licensee. For such entry of goods in to Free zone, above Customs Declaration type must be cleared.
However, entry of some goods is forbidden to the free zones in accordance with the Article 80 of GCC Customs Law Required Documents
• Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
• Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
• Statistical Export Declaration
• Commercial Invoice
• Certificate of Origin
• Packing List
• Delivery Order

15.12.5.What is FZ Transit between Dubai based FZ ?
Goods stored and owned by a free zone client in a free zone may be sold to another client located in different free zone for which the above declaration needs to be processed. 
The exporter or his broker can submit the declaration.
However, the declaration needs to be acknowledged by the receiver being the importer through the acknowledgement service in Dubai trade Required Documents
- Delivery Advice
- Export Invoice
- Packing List
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Temporary Admission
15.13.What is Temporary Admission ?
Under this customs procedure the goods can be admitted temporarily for a specific purpose for a definite period of time. Temporary Admission Regime is classified into following Declaration types.
- Temporary Admission from ROW to Local
- Temporary Admission from FZ to Local
- Temporary Admission from CW to Local

15.13.1.What is Temporary Admission from ROW to Local:
The goods brought from ROW for Exhibition, Projects, Processing, Repair, Refilling etc. can be cleared on above Declaration Type. The customs duties on the goods shall be suspended and can be cleared on a Standing Guarantee or Deposit equivalent to the payable customs duties.
What are the Required Documents for Temporary Admission from ROW to Local ?
- Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
- Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
- Commercial Invoice
- Certificate of Origin
- Packing List
- Delivery Order
Refer to Customs Policy 33 of 2010 for more details

15.13.2.What is Temporary Admission from FZ to Local
The goods from Free Zone can be brought for the purposes laid down in Customs Policy- 33 on a standing guarantee or deposit equivalent to payable customs duties on temporary basis. This process can be completed by clearing the above Declaration Type. Declaration must be submitted by the Free Zone Licensee by specifying the period of temporary admission.
What are the Required Documents for Temporary Admission from FZ to Local ?
- Delivery Advice
- Invoice
- Packing List
- Permit for Restricted Goods (If any) from competent authority.

15.13.3.What is Temporary Admission from CW to Local:
The goods from a Customs Warehouse can be brought for the purposes laid down in Customs Policy- 33 on a standing guarantee or deposit equivalent to payable customs duties on temporary basis. This process can be completed by clearing the above Declaration Type. Declaration must be submitted by the Customs Warehouse Licensee or a local Importer by specifying the period of
temporary admission.
What are the Rrequired Documents
- Invoice
- Packing List
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Transfer of Goods
15.14. What is Transfer of Goods
The goods admitted into Customs Warehouse or Free Zones may be transferred from one to another. Following type of Declarations are available for clearing various types of transfer of goods.
• Transfer of Cargo by Dubai based CW
• Transfer within a FZ

15.14.1. Transfer of Cargo by Dubai based CW
The goods admitted into one Customs Warehouse may be transferred to another by clearing the above declaration. The exporter or his agent can submit the declaration. However, the receiver needs to acknowledge the declaration through the acknowledgement service in Dubai trade

15.14.2. Transfer within a FZ
Goods stored by a free zone client in a free zone may be sold to another client in the same free zone for the above declaration needs to be processed. The importer or his broker can submit the declaration. However, the declaration needs to be acknowledged by the receiver through the acknowledgement service in Dubai trade.
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Cargo Transfer
15.15. Cargo Transfer - Cargo Transfer from CTO to CH (Same Location)
- Cargo Transfer from CTO to CH (Different Locations)
- Cargo Transfer from CH to CH (Same Location)
- Cargo Transfer from CH to CH (Different Locations) 
15.15.1. Cargo Transfer from CTO to CH (Same Location)
Freight Forwarders Agents and Cargo Handlers who bring in consolidated cargo can transfer the consolidated cargo from the terminal operator to their warehouse inside the same port by clearing this declaration. No deposit shall be necessary. However, the terminal operator needs to send the release message to customs and the receiver needs to send the receipt message.

15.15.2. Cargo Transfer from CTO to CH (Different Locations)
Freight Forwarders and Cargo Handlers who bring in consolidated cargo can transfer the consolidated cargo from the terminal operator to their warehouse in another Dubai port by clearing this declaration. A deposit shall be necessary.
Moreover, the terminal operator needs to send the release message to customs and the receiver needs to send the receipt message.

15.15.3. Cargo Transfer from CH to CH (Same Location)
A consolidated cargo transferred from the terminal operator may further be transferred to another freight forwarder in the same location provided that the cargo being transferred is again a consolidation. No deposit shall be necessary.
However, the terminal operator needs to send the release message to customs and the receiver needs to send the receipt message.

15.15.4. Cargo Transfer from CH to CH (Different Locations)
A consolidated cargo transferred from the terminal operator may further be transferred to another Cargo Handler in another location provided that the cargo being transferred is again a consolidation. A deposit shall be necessary.
However, the terminal operator needs to send the release message to customs and the receiver needs to send the receipt message.
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Virtual Corridor
15.16. Virtual Corridor
Virtual Corridor is an approved Customs Procedure for transfer of goods under the Cargo Transfer Request using electronic system from one Customs Zone to another within Dubai by using only Dubai›s roads. Such roads are therefore considered to be as the virtual corridor for Transfer of Goods. Shipping Agents may avail this facility of Virtual Corridor provided by Dubai Customs against a Virtual Guarantee which is equal to an amount of AED 10000 and a service fee of AED 100, for each Cargo Transfer Request between the Customs Zones. This facility is provided to Shipping Agents on following conditions that;
- Consolidated goods shall be transferred between Cargo Handlers (Agents) from an authorized Customs Zone to another within the same Customs Territory.
- Shipping Agents must be licensed by the competent authority in order to register with Dubai Customs to operate as a Cargo Handler.
- Only the registered and authorized Shipping Agents can use this facility for storage of their goods.
- Request for Cargo Transfer shall be processed on Mirsal2- System
- Transfer of Cargo shall be completed within the specific timeframe.
Settlement of virtual Guarantee Account is an automated process based on the confirmation from the competent Customs Officer that the seal affixed on the cargo is intact upon its arrival at the destination point within the permitted timeframe.
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: ATA Carnet
15.17. ATA Carnet
ATA Carnet is an international Customs Document issued by an authorized Chamber of commerce on which goods can be moved through a number of countries who are the members of the ATA international Guarantee Chain without raising bonds or paying Customs Duty and Taxes or completing the normal Customs Procedures. This facility can be used for temporarily
importing goods into the country or temporarily exporting goods. For importing, the importer needs to obtain the ATA carnet from the Guaranteeing Association in the country of shipment. For Exports, ATA carnet is issued by Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Refer to Customs Policy Nos38- and 41 for more details.

15.17.1. Import and Export Procedures under ATA Carnet.
Currently UAE accepts carnet for exhibition goods only and the clearance is available only in the customs counter.
Clearance is done on ATA document. Neither fees are collected nor Customs ask for any document other than ATA. In case the holder fails to export goods under ATA Carnet, customs will invoke its right to claim the applicable duty charges from the Guaranteeing Association. If the Customs Clearance under ATA is required after normal office hour, a service fee will be levied.
Document Offices for ATA Carnet Clearance
- Cargo Village customs Centre
- Jebel Ali Customs Centre
- Dubai International Airport Customs Centre
- Al Maktoum International Airport Customs Centre
- Hatta Custom s Center 
- Dubai Airport Terminal1- Customs Center
- Dubai Airport Terminal2- Customs Center
- Dubai Airport Terminal3- Customs Center
- Dubai Airport Free Zone Custom s Center
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Manifest
15.18. Submission of Manifest
Cargo of all means of transport shall be unloaded only within the Customs Zone at the port under supervision of the customs office. The Manifest must be submitted by the shipmaster or Cargo Handler within (36) hours from the time the ship enters the seaport, excluding the official holidays. Any amendment or cancellation on the manifest submitted after above period shall be against a service charge of AED 5 for each bill of lading.
<END>

Type: GUIDE
15.19. e-Freight Between Airports
Dubai Customs has implemented e-Freight initiative of International Air Transport Association (lATA) by integrating the airports for transporting air cargo through which different freight and trade documents can be exchanged. This facility shall be available only between the airports of the countries where e- Freight initiative is implemented and logistically managed
by approved air cargo companies. Only licensed air cargo companies registered in UAE and affiliated to e-Freight initiative shall be eligible to avail this service. The documents must be retained for a period of five years from the date of Declaration through an efficient archiving system which must be accessible to customs. The Documents of Commercial Invoice and Certificate of Origin shall be accepted from the airport of e-Freight in electronic form for the following declarations.
- Import
- Import for re-export
- Export
- Transit/Transshipment
- Transit in to Free Zones
- Transit in to Customs Warehouses
- Temporary Admission
<END>

<GUIDE>
Title: Airway Bill
15.20. Electronic Airway Bill
Cargo Handling Agents or Carriers may use the facility of Electronic Data Interchange for transferring the Airway Bill Information to Customs. The Information must include all the data available in the original Airway Bill.
However, a copy must be presented as a part of submittal of Documents in accordance with the provision of Customs Notice7- of 2010.

<Transshipment Cargo>
15.21. Transshipment Cargo
Any shipment may be transshipped only under supervision of the customs office.
The Shipping Agents/ Cargo Handler must submit the load list within five business days from the date of Manifest submission for the purpose of reconciling the manifests of transshipped cargo.


Title: Courier Declaration
15.22. Courier Declaration
Courier companies shall submit Customs Declarations through Mirsal2- system for all types of shipments regardless to their value. However, Customs 
Declarations for courier goods whose value is AED 1000 and below shall be submitted in the following types of declarations:
- Courier Import Declaration.
- Courier Export Declaration.
- Courier Transit Declaration
Ref Custom Notice8- of 2010

Title: Claim
16. Submission of Claim for Refund
The claims for refund of Deposit or releasing the Guarantee can be submitted online through Dubai Trade portal. The period in which a claim can be submitted shall be varying depending on the type of Deposits.
What are the Documents of Proof Export ?
Sea Channel: Exit / Entry certificate, Copy of Export Declaration or copy of Manifest and Copy of bill of lading
Air Channel: Exit / Entry Certificate, Copy of Export Declaration and Copy of Airway Bill.
By Land: Exit / Entry certificate, Copy of export declaration or Copy of manifest 


Title: CUSTOMS GUIDE
16.1. Settlement of Declaration (Non-Remittance) on Direct Export from FZ of same Customs Office Goods admitted into a free zone may be exported from the customs offices
of the same Free zones without presenting a cash or bank guarantee for clearance of Customs Declarations. The goods must be re-exported within
30 days from the date of lodgment of Declaration. For the settlement of the customs procedure, the Declarant must submit a copy of FZ Transit-out Declaration and a Certificate of Exit/Entry, duly signed and stamped by the competent authority to the Customs as Proof of Export from the same port attached to the exporting FZ.

The Free zones attached to the ports of the same Customs Offices from where the goods are exported:
Free Zones Ports of Exportation
• Jebel Ali Port
• Al Maktoum Intl. Airport Jebel Ali FZ
• Jebel Ali Port
• Al Maktoum Intl. Airport
Dubai Logistics City
Dubai Intl. Airport FZ • Dubai International Airport
Refer to the Customs Notice3- of 2016 for more details

17. Automated Transfer of Customs Duty–ATCD
Customs cleared goods in free circulation may cross the borders of GCC Member States without levying Customs Duties repeatedly at each point of entry. For the purposes of automating, regulating and controlling Customs Procedures and transfer of Customs Duty, a System of Automated Transfer of Customs Duty (ATCD) has been implemented. 
This system will generate a Due Number (Barcode) consisting of 65 digits which shall be imprinted on the Customs Statistical Declarations. 
This process is applicable to the following Customs Procedures.
- Importation of goods by a GCC importer from ROW with destination as one of the GCC states.
- Exportation of goods from local to GCC states against the previously cleared Import Customs Bill
- Importation of goods by a GCC importer from a Free Zone or Customs Warehouse in Dubai with destination to one of the GCC states.
What are the Requirements for the ATCD Process ?
- If the Exporter is different from the original Importer, then the copy of the Import Bill shall be required.
- The Import Bill Reference number in the system must be a valid number.
An option to amend the reference number in Export Bill is provided.
- The system will calculate only the exact duty payable to the GCC Country.
- The System will print a Due Number on Statistical Declaration. Currently this services is provided at the Offices of Customs Bureau Services 
- If the original Declaration was cleared as Import for Re-Export or Duty Deposit, then applicable duty must be paid prior to obtaining the Due Number 
- If the goods with destination to a GCC state are not imported directly by a GCC Importer, Customs Inspection and affixing customs seal shall be required.
- For new or used vehicles under HS Heading Nos. 8702 and 8703, the Due number shall be garnted only if the vehicles are moved between GCC states within the period of 2 years from the date of Customs Duty Payment.

Title: Post Clearance Audit
18. What is Post Clearance Audit
Customs conducts post clearance audit on all transactions of the customer with Dubai Customs to ensure law compliance. In the process of audit Customs may demand the client for all required information to be submitted when it deems necessary in order to facilitate Customs Audit.

19. What is Retention of Documents
The documents related to the Customs Declaration shall be required to retain for the period of 5 years from the date of clearance. Customs may demand all the Declaration related documents such as contracts, correspondence and other relevant documents without having to accept all that stated in the Declaration or in the Invoices. However, the documents related to the Free zone Customs Declaration shall be required to retain until the economic operations are being carried out in free zones.
Refer to Article 27 para115 ,2- and 127 of GCC Customs Law and Para2- (A) of Customs Notice 15 of 2011
<END>

<GUIDE>
20. What is Customs Audit
Clients can submit a request to have their records audited by Dubai Customs in a formal application to the Customs Audit Department. 
Customs shall conduct the audit upon the approval against a service fee of AED 3000/ .
The Customs Audit Department shall conduct the audit and submit a final report within 3 months from the date of the payment of Audit Fee. However, the audit report from Dubai Customs at the request of the client shall not prejudice Dubai Custom›s right to claim for customs duties and fines until it is confirmed that it is payable in accordance with the Common Customs Law
<END>

<GUIDE>
TYPE: Customs guide
21. What is Protection of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) 
Dubai Customs is committed to protect the Intellectual property Rights (IPR).
The clients can register their Agency Rights and Trademark in “Brands Recording e-System” of Dubai Customs. Trade marks can be registered as a word, name, symbol, device or any combination of them which are used or intended to be used in trade in order to distinguish the brand from others.
Such registration enables the Agent and Brand Owner to file a complaint with Dubai Customs by providing sufficient information on infringing their rights by any unauthorized importers. The client can submit the request along with the letter issued by Ministry of Economy as a proof of being a registered Trade Agent or with a valid trademark issued by the competent
authority. A translated copy of the agency agreement with all details and features of the brand shall also be submitted 

22. Landing Certificates
The importer may sometime need a proof of landing to prove to the export or other authorities that the goods exported have in fact landed in Dubai and cleared for home consumption. The importer or the exporter or their agents may request for landing certificates either through Dubai Trade or customs officers by submitting proof of clearance and delivery of the goods.

23. Vehicle Clearance Certificates (VCC)
Any vehicle imported into the country must have a VCC to register the vehicle with the traffic authorities or to export them outside the country. The service to submit the requests for issuing the VCC is provided to customers online via Dubai Trade or through the bureau services in Customs locations against the customs cleared declaration. The Customer can track the status of VCC Requests and make the payment through online service. Customer shall be notified by email about the status of VCCs also. If any amendment or cancellation is required after the VCCs has been issued, then the VCC should be surrendered to the designated customs counters.

24. Statistical Reports
The clients can submit a request for statistical reports as provided below in a prescribed form duly signed and stamped by the company by paying applicable fees provided in Appendix – B.
- Summary Report-By HS Code
- Summary Report-By Country
- One HS Code by Country
- One Country by HS Code
- Company Yearly Performance
- Company Yearly Performance by HS Code

25. Storing of Passenger Goods in the Airport
Goods in the possession of inbound passengers may be placed in Customs stores at any of Dubai airports for a period of more than 24 hours against a storage fee of AED 100 per day on every package. The maximum period of storage shall be three months from the date of storage. Dubai Customs shall have the right to sell goods in public auction unless the goods are taken back
within this period.

26. Sale of Goods by Public Auction
In line with the provisions in the Common Customs Law of GCC and Dubai Customs Policy, Dubai Customs shall exercise the right to sell the following goods in public Auction.
- Seized perishable goods
- Goods paced in Public and Private Customs Warehouses after the expiry of their permitted storages period
- Un-Cleared Goods that exist in the Yards or Wharves
- Unclaimed Goods which are left behind at the Customs Office or Customs Warehouse
- Confiscated means of Transport

  What are the The permitted storage periods for the various types of goods are:
- Three months for FCL/General/Bulk Cargo, Vehicle and other RoadMoving Equipment arriving by Sea, all Goods arriving by Air and Land.
- One month for the FCL Refrigerated and Dangerous Cargo
- Three months for goods deposited in the Customs Store by the passengers.
Customs shall announce the public auction and publish the list of the goods for sale in newspapers.
Please refer to the Customs Notice No. 29 of 2009 for more details
<END>

<Appendix>
Type: Appendix
Title: Appendix A - What are Customs Declaration Fees ?
Content Customs Declaration Fees :
- Export from CW to FZ: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Export from CW to ROW: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Export from Local to FZ: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Export from Local to ROW: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Export Statistical Declaration: Dutiable - 50, Non-Dutiable - 50
- FZ Transit Between Dubai based FZ: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- FZ Transit In: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- FZ Transit Out: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import for Re Export to Local from CW: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Import for Re Export to Local from FZ: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Import for Re Export to Local from ROW: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Import Statistical Declaration: Dutiable - 70, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to CW from FZ: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to CW from Local (after temporary admission): Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to CW from ROW: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to Local from CW: Dutiable - 70, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to Local from FZ: Dutiable - 70, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Import to Local from ROW: Dutiable - 70, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Re Export to FZ (after Import for Re Export): Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Re Export to ROW (after import for re-export): Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Return to FZ after Temporary Admission: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Return to ROW after Temporary Admission: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Temporary Admission from CW to Local: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Temporary Admission from FZ to Local: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Temporary Admission from ROW to Local: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Temporary Export from Local to FZ: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Temporary Export from Local to ROW: Dutiable - 100, Non-Dutiable - 100
- Transfer of Cargo by Dubai based CW: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Transfer within a FZ: Dutiable - 80, Non-Dutiable - 80
- Transit (ROW to ROW): Dutiable - 50, Non-Dutiable - 15
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix B - What are Other Customs Services Fee ?
Content Other Customs Services Fee :
Certificate Of Arrival: Amount - 100
Certificate Of Discharge: Amount - 100
Cheque Installment for Company- Per Cheque (From 1 to 4): Amount - 150
Cheque Installment for Company- Per Cheque (From 5 to 12): Amount - 300
Cheque Installment for Person- Per Cheque (From 1 to 4): Amount - 50
Cheque Installment for Person- Per Cheque (From 5 to 12): Amount - 75
Common Customs Law Book of GCC: Amount - 50
Customs Audit Fee at client’s request: Amount - 3000
Customs Declaration Amendment Fee: Amount - 25
Customs Declaration Cancellation Fee: Amount - 25
Customs Ware House Agreement Fee: Amount - 25,000
Customs Warehouse License Fee: Amount - 2000
DUCAMZ -Vehicle Exit Certificate: Amount - 30
DUCAMZ-Delivery Advice & Valuation Report On Vehicle: Amount - 200
Duplicate Copy Fee: Amount - 100
E-Clearance–Penalty For Late Submission Of Docs: Amount - 50
Exit /Entry Permit on Goods through Customs Gate: Amount - 20
Exit /Entry Seal Charge: Amount - 20
Export Manifest Charge (Sea Cargo): Amount - 20
Extra Manifest Charges: Amount - 10
Gate Pass Charges: Amount - 20
Grievance Application Fee: Amount - 200
HS Code Charges: Amount - 25
Inspection Charge: Amount - 150
Inspection Seal Charges: Amount - 20
Israeli Boycott Stamp: Amount - 10
Kimberly Certificate Process Charges-DMCC: Amount - 30
Knowledge Payable To HH The Ruler's Court: Amount - 20
Land Cargo Manifest: Amount - 40
Loading & Unloading from Dry Port (Japanese Cars): Amount - 100
Loading & Unloading from Dry Port (American Cars): Amount - 120
Manifest Amendment: Amount - 100
Mirsal 2 - Fines: Amount - 500
Monthly Statement Of Account: Amount - 50
Non Liability Certificate: Amount - 100
Number Plate issued for Vehicles on Temporary Admission: Amount - 20
Nursery Collection Fees: Amount - 500
Photocopy Charge for Customs Bill: Amount - 10
Postponement Of PDC for Company per Cheque: Amount - 200
Postponement Of PDC for Person per Cheque: Amount - 100
Public Warehouse License New /Renewal Fee: Amount - 150,000
Refund Claim Registration: Amount - 50
Refund Claim Registration Fee For Finance: Amount - 25
Refund Claim Registration Fee For Operations: Amount - 25
Registration Charge for New ATA Agent: Amount - 100
Registration Charge for New Clearing Agent: Amount - 100
Registration Charge for New FZ Co: Amount - 100
Registration Charge for New Importer: Amount - 100
Registration Charge for New Shipping Agent: Amount - 500
Renewal Charge for ATA Agent: Amount - 25
Renewal Charge for Clearing Agent: Amount - 25
Renewal Charge for FZ Co: Amount - 25
Renewal Charge for Importer: Amount - 25
Renewal Charge for Shipping Agent: Amount - 25
Seal Charges: Amount - 20
Shipping Agent Registration: Amount - 500
Special Re-Export and Claim Incentive: Amount - 100
Statement Of Account -Per Month: Amount - 50
Statistical Report -Yearly Summary Report by HS Code(More than 50 HS Codes): Amount - 225
Statistical Report -Yearly Summary Report on Company Performance: Amount - 250
Statistical Report -Yearly Summary Report on Company Performance by HS Code: Amount - 1850
Statistical Report -Yearly summary Report on Country (More than 20 countries): Amount - 200
Statistical Report -Yearly Summary Report on one HS Code by country: Amount - 200
Statistical Report -Yearly Summary Report on one country by HS Code: Amount - 200
Statistical Report-Yearly Summary Report by Country (up to 20 Countries): Amount - 150
Statistical Report-Yearly Summary Report by HS Code (up to 20 HS Codes): Amount - 150
Statistical Report-Yearly Summary Report by HS Code (up to 50 HS Codes): Amount - 200
Storage Fee per day on each package of goods carried by passenger: Amount - 100
Tariff - Commercial Agencies Registrations Fees: Amount - 200
Tariff-Commercial Agencies Complaint Follow up Fee: Amount - 2000
Trade Agencies- Additional Service Fee for Customs Inspection: Amount - 2000
Trade Agencies- Registration Fee for Customs Control (One Time): Amount - 200
Trade Agencies- Urgent Follow-Up of a Complaint (One Time): Amount - 500
Trade Agencies-Urgent Lodgment and Follow Up of a Complaint after Office Time and outside Customs Zone: Amount - 1000
Trade Mark- Complaint Follow Up Deposit: Amount - 5000
Trade Mark- Complaint Follow Up Fee: Amount - 2000
Trade Mark- Registration Fee: Amount - 200
Trade Mark-Extra Fee For Urgent Complaint Follow up: Amount - 500
Trade Mark-Extra fee-Urgent Comp. Follow Up-Holiday: Amount - 1000
True Copy Charges: Amount - 20
Urgent Cheque Processing Service Fee: Amount - 75
Vehicle Registration Fee: Amount - 30
<Appendix_END>
<END>

Title: Appendix C - Claim for Re-Export Deposit Fine/Deduction
Content:
Claims Submitted After 120 Days from the Expiry Date: Fine/Deduction - Claim will be rejected totally
Claims Submitted Within 1 To 60 days after the expiry date: Fine/Deduction - 15 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Claims submitted within 61 to 90 days after the expiry date: Fine/Deduction - 30 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Claims submitted within 91 to 120 days after the expiry date: Fine/Deduction - 45 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Claim for Customs Duty Deposit Fine/Deduction
Claims submitted within 30 days from the date of expiry: Fine/Deduction - 10 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Claim for Deposit against Invoice& Certificate Origin Fine/Deduction
Claims submitted within 30 days from the date of expiry: Fine/Deduction - 25 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Claims submitted within 31 To 60 days from the bill date: Fine/Deduction - 50 % Of Deposit will be deducted
Other fines Fine/Deduction
Broker card renewal delay: Fine/Deduction - 50 per month
E-clearance–penalty for late submission of docs: Fine/Deduction - 50
Fine for replacement of PDC Cheque: Fine/Deduction - 500
Fine on Cheque Returned: Fine/Deduction - 500
Fine on Container Seal Breaking: Fine/Deduction - 5000
Fine on Wrong Declaration: Fine/Deduction - 500
Free zone non- re-export -penalty: Fine/Deduction - %10 of the CIF value
Late submission fine for not export cargo (after 180 days) -first month: Fine/Deduction - Dh.1000/- per bill of entry for 1st month
Late submission fine for not export cargo (after 180 days)-from second month: Fine/Deduction - Additional dh.1000/- per bill -total Dh.2000/-
Mirsal 2 -penalty for late submission of documents: Fine/Deduction - 50
Tariff - fines: Fine/Deduction - 500
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix D - What are Prices of Customs Printed Forms and Documents:
Content Prices of Customs Printed Forms and Documents:
Application for Cargo Clearance under a Standing Guarantee: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Application for Customs Duty Exemption for Medicine: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Application For Duty Exemption End User: Units - Single, AED - 15
Application For Exemption Of Industrial: Units - Single, AED - 15
Application For Standing Guarantee: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Application to Transfer Goods to Customs bonded storage: Units - 100 Copies, AED - 150
Auction Notice: Units - Single, AED - 10
Customs Duty Bank Guarantee Forms: Units - Single, AED - 15
Debit Slip: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 100
Declaration Forms: Units - 1500 Forms, AED - 300
Declaration of Export: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 250
Delivery Order: Units - 500 Forms, AED - 550
DFSA Export Bill: Units - Single, AED - 20
DFSA Import Bill: Units - Single, AED - 20
Dry Ports -Daily Pass–Individuals: Units - Single, AED - 5
DUCAMZ -Vehicle Exit Certificate: Units - Single, AED - 30
DUCAMZ-Delivery Advice & Valuation Report On Vehicle: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Exit/Entry Certificate: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Export Manifest Sea Cargo: Units - Single, AED - 20
GCC Customs Common Law Book: Units - Single, AED - 50
HS Code Book: Units - Single, AED - 250
Import Authority for Restricted Goods: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Inter-Port Transfer Authority: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Land Cargo Manifest: Units - Single, AED - 40
Land transshipment Bill: Units - Single, AED - 10
List Of Exemption Goods: Units - Single, AED - 25
Manifest Receipt And Registration: Units - Single, AED - 10
Outbound Cargo Inter Port Transfer: Units - Single, AED - 25
Outbound Cargo Tally Sheet: Units - Single, AED - 20
Statistics- Statistics CD - 2005 & Below: Units - Single, AED - 100
Statistics- Statistics CD - 2007-2006: Units - Single, AED - 250
Statistics- Statistics CD - 2009-2008: Units - Single, AED - 1000
Valuation/ Specification Report on Vehicle: Units - 10 Pads, AED - 200
Vehicle List: Units - Single, AED - 25
Vessel Clearance Certificate: Units - Single, AED - 15
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix D - What are Rates of Tobacco and Manufactured Tobacco Substitutes:
Content:
Un manufactured Tobacco, Not stemmed/Stripped: HS Code - 24011000, Duty Rate - AED 20 per Gross Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Un manufactured Tobacco, Partly or wholly stemmed stripped: HS Code - 24012000, Duty Rate - AED 20 per Gross Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Tobacco refuse, For uses as tobacco & others: HS Code - 24013010, Duty Rate - AED 20 per Gross Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Tobacco refuse: HS Code - 24013090, Duty Rate - AED 20 per Gross Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Cigars, Cheroots containing tobacco: HS Code - 24021000, Duty Rate - AED 150 per direct covered Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Cigars of tobacco substitutes: HS Code - 24029010, Duty Rate - AED 150 per direct covered Kg, Duty Amount - 100
Cigarettes containing Tobacco: HS Code - 24022000, Duty Rate - AED 100 per 1000 cigarettes, Duty Amount - 100
Cigarettes of tobacco substitutes: HS Code - 24029020, Duty Rate - AED 100 per 1000 cigarettes, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Chopped or compressed tobacco for cigarettes: HS Code - 24031910, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Chopped or compressed tobacco for pipes: HS Code - 24031100, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Chopped or compressed tobacco for retail: HS Code - 24031030, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Others: HS Code - 24031090, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Homogenized or reconstituted tobacco: HS Code - 24039100, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Compressed or liquored tobacco for making snuff: HS Code - 24039910, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
Manufactured tobacco and tobacco substitutes, Compressed or chopped tobacco for chewing: HS Code - 24039920, Duty Rate - AED 40 per kg, Duty Amount - 100
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix F - What are License Issuing Authorities in Dubai:
Content:
License Types: Professional, Issuing Authority: Department of Economic Developments, Place: Dubai
License Types: Commercial, Issuing Authority: Department of Economic Developments, Place: Dubai
License Types: Industrial, Issuing Authority: Department of Economic Developments, Place: Dubai
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority: Dubai World Central, Place: Dubai
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority: Jebel Ali Free Zone, Place: Dubai
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority: Dubai Holding ,  Place : Dubai 
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority: Tarakhees, Place: Dubai 
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority:Design District, Place: Dubai 
License Types: Free Zone ,Issuing Authority: Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority, Place: Dubai
License Types: Intlaaq, Issuing Authority: Department of Economic Developments, Place: Dubai
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix G - What are License Issuing Authorities in other Emirates:
Content:
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Fujairah Municipality, Place: Fujairah
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Economic Development Department, Place: Sharjah
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Municipality & planning department, Place: UAQ
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Department of Planning Economy Abu Dhabi Tourism Authority, Place: Abu Dhabi
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Economic Department, Place: RAK
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Eco Activity Licensing Dept, Place: Al Ain
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority:  Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone, Place: RAK
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority: Abu Dhabi Airport Free Zone, Place:Abu Dhabi
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority: Sharjah Airport International FZ (SAIF Zone),Place: Sharjah
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority: Hamriyah FZ (SHJ), Place : Fujairah
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority: Ajman Free Zone, Place :Ajman
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority: Ahmed Bin Rashid FZ (UAQ) , Place: UAQ
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix H - License Issuing Authorities in GCC States :
Content:
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Ministry of Commerce, Place: KSA
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Commercial Registration Department, Place: Kuwait
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Ministry of Municipal and Agricultural Affairs, Place: Qatar
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Ministry of Commerce, Place: Bahrain
License Types : Commercial, Issuing Authority: Ministry of Commerce and Industry: Oman
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority:  Free zone (OMN), Place: Oman
License Types : Free Zone, Issuing Authority:  Free zone (KUW), Place: Kuwait
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix I - What is Restricting Authorities:
Content:
Controlling Authorities: Ministry Of Climate Change & Environment, Goods Categories: Live Animals and product of animal origin
Controlling Authorities: Ministry Of Interior, Goods Categories: Explosives, Arms, Ammunitions and their parts / accessories
Controlling Authorities: Dubai Municipality, Goods Categories: Vegetable Product, Prepared Food Stuff, Products of Chemical
Controlling Authorities: Dubai Police, Goods Categories: Alcoholic beverages
Controlling Authorities: Ministry Of Economy, Goods Categories: Industrial Raw Materials
Controlling Authorities: Ministry Of Health, Goods Categories: Pharmaceutical products and Medical/Surgical instrumental and apparatus
Controlling Authorities: Emirates Authority for Standardization and Metrology, Goods Categories: Tires/Drinking Water
Controlling Authorities: National Media Council, Goods Categories: Printed books, newspapers and similar products, Work Art, collectors “Pieces and Antiques”
Controlling Authorities: DMCC, Goods Categories: Pearls, Diamonds, Rough Diamonds etc.
Controlling Authorities: General Secretariat Of Municipalities, Goods Categories: Lasers, Dangerous waste.
Controlling Authorities: Telecommunications Regulatory Authority, Goods Categories: Telecommunication equipment
Controlling Authorities: Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation, Goods Categories: Nuclear reactors and Radio Transmitters.
Controlling Authorities: H.Q. Coast Guard Group, Goods Categories: Boats, Cruise Ships etc.
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Appendix>
Title: Appendix J - What is Documents Submittal:
Content:
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods imported by sea, Customs Offices:
Port Rashid Customer Service Center
Jebel Ali Port Customer Service Center
Dry Port Customer Service Center
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods imported by air, Customs Offices:
Dubai Cargo Village Customer Service Center
Airport Free Zone Customer Service Center
Jebel Ali Cargo Village Customer Service Center
Documents Types: Customs declarations and documents for goods imported by land, Customs Offices: Dry Port Customer Service Center
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods of Free Zones of Jebel Ali, TECOM, and Dubai Logistics City, Customs Offices:
Customer Service Center at Jebel Ali Port and TECOM
Customs Service Center of Dubai Logistics City
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods of Airport Free Zone and Dubai Silicon Oasis, Customs Offices: Airport Free Zone & and Dubai Si I icon Oasis Customer Service Center
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods of Dubai MultiCommodities Center, Customs Offices: Customer Service Center at Dubai Multi Commodities Center
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Goods of DUCAMZ, Customs Offices: DUCAMZ Customer Service Center
Documents Types: Customs Declarations and Documents for Postal Cargo, Customs Offices: Customer Service Center of Postal Customs
<Appendix_END>
<END>

<Q&A>
Type: Q&A
Title: Frequently Asked Questions & Answers:
Content:

<Q> Who can use Mirsal 2 ?
<A>Anyone who is registered with Dubai Customs as the authorized person to import, export or transit goods through Dubai can use Mirsal 2 to submit goods declarations to Customs.

<Q> What types of Declarations can be made in Mirsal 2?
<A> The types of declarations that can be made in Mirsal 2 are as follows:
1. Import to Local from ROW (Rest of the World): This is for importing goods for local/GCC consumption from countries outside the Gulf Co‐operation Council (GCC).
2. Import to Local from FZ (Free Zone): This declaration type is used for importing goods for local/GCC consumption from Free Zones.
3. Import to Local from CW (Customs Warehouse): This is for importing goods for local/GCC consumption from Customs Warehouses.
4. Import to Local from GCC (statistical Import): This is used to import goods for local consumption from a GCC country or Transit to another GCC country.
5. Import for Re-Export to Local from ROW: This is for importing goods from countries outside the GCC for the purpose of re-export to countries outside the GCC.
6. Import for Re-Export to Local from FZ: This declaration type is used for importing goods from Free Zones for the purpose of re-export to countries outside the GCC.
7. Import for Re-Export to Local from CW: This is for importing goods from Customs Warehouses for the purpose of re-export to countries outside the GCC.
8. Import to CW from ROW: This is used to import goods to a Customs Warehouse from countries outside the GCC.
9. Import to CW from FZ: This is for importing goods to Customs Warehouses from Free Zones.
10. Import to CW from Non‐Dubai CW (Other Emirates & GCC): This is used to import goods to a Dubai Customs Warehouse from another Customs Warehouse of Other Emirates or GCC.
11. Import to CW from Non‐Dubai FZ (Other Emirates & GCC): This is for importing goods to a Dubai Customs Warehouse from Other Emirates or GCC Free Zones.
12. Export from Local to ROW: This declaration type is used to export goods from local to countries outside the GCC.
13. Export from Local to FZ: This is used to export goods from local to Free Zone.
14. Export from Local to GCC (statistical export): This is used to export the local or previously imported goods to GCC countries.
15. Temporary Export from Local to ROW: This is used to export goods from the local market to overseas countries temporarily for purposes such as repair, exhibition etc.
16 Temporary Export from Local to FZ  To export goods from the local market to Free Zones temporarily.
17 Export from CW to ROW To export goods from a Customs Warehouse to overseas countries other than GCC.
18 Export from CW to FZ To export goods from Customs Warehouse to Free Zones.
19 Export From, Dubai CW to Non‐Dubai CW (Other Emirates & GCC) To export goods from Dubai custom warehouse to another custom warehouse under Other Emirates or GCC
20 Export From, Dubai CW to Non‐Dubai FZ (Other Emirates & GCC) To export goods from Dubai custom warehouse to a Free Zone under Other Emirates or GCC
21 Re Export to ROW (after import for re export)  To re ‐ export goods to overseas countries other than GCC, which were previously imported on an Import for re‐export declaration.
22 Re Export to FZ (after Import for Re Export) To re ‐ export goods to a Free Zone, which were previously imported on an Import for Re‐Export declaration.
23 Return to FZ after Temporary Admission To return goods to a Free Zone, which were temporarily imported from a Free Zone.
24 Return to ROW after Temporary Admission To return goods to overseas countries after being temporarily imported.
25 Transit (ROW to ROW) For goods transiting through Dubai from an overseas country to another overseas country.
26 FZ Transit In To import goods to a Free Zone from an overseas country.
27 FZ Transit In from GCC and Other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market To import goods to a Dubai Free Zone from another Free Zone under Other Emirates
 or GCC Same is used for importing goods to a Dubai Free Zone from GCC Local Market
28 FZ Transit Out To export goods from a Free Zone to an overseas country other than GCC
29 FZ Transit Out to Non‐Dubai FZ (Other Emirates & GCC) To export goods from a Dubai Free Zone to another Free Zone under Other Emirates or GCC
30 FZ Transit Between Dubai based FZ To transfer goods between two Free Zones under Dubai
31 Temporary Admission from ROW to Local To import goods for a temporary purpose (such as exhibition, maintenance, repair etc) from an overseas country
32 Temporary Admission from FZ to Local To import goods from a Free Zone to Local for temporary purpose (such as exhibition, maintenance, repair etc)
33 Temporary Admission from CW to Local To import goods from a Customs Warehouse to Local for temporary purpose (such as exhibition, maintenance, repair etc)
34 Transfer of cargo by Dubai based CW To transfer goods between two Private Custom warehouses or change of ownership of goods stored within a Public Custom Warehouse
35 Transfer within a FZ To transfer goods between companies within the same free zone
36 Courier Import To import LV consignments destined for local/GCC/FZ from overseas countries.
37 Courier Export To export LV consignments from local to overseas countries/GCC.
38 Courier Transit For LV consignments transiting through Dubai from an overseas country to another overseas country other than GCC


<Q> How to register in Mirsal 2?
<A>To register in Mirsal 2 please call Dubai Trade’s free phone number on 800 4464 or contact Dubai Customs Registration & Licensing Office quoting Reference No. Customs/DC/M2/001.
Customs Registration & Licensing Office:
Tel: +971 4 302 3799
Tel: +971 4 302 3808
Email: Cust.LicensingReg@dubaicustoms.ae

<Q> Why do I need a digital certificate?
<A> The digital signature is a way to ensure that the submitted electronic documents are authentic. Authentic means that Dubai Customs knows who created the document and knows that it has not been altered in any way since that person created it. It is a type of asymmetric cryptography in which is used to simulate the security properties of a handwritten signature on paper. Applying two algorithms, one for signing the documents which involves the user's private key, and one for verifying signatures at Dubai Customs end which involves the user's public key. The process is accompanied
with and end‐2‐end encryption for the data. Signed documents are also stored electronically for future reference. The signing code on the client side is also signed and the signature is published. Therefore the digital signature would provide enough evidence on identifying the signatory which would be legally binding in an UAE court of law.

<Q> Do we have to keep the documents supporting the declaration?
<A> Yes, the authorized person or their representative is required by Common Customs Law of the GCC States (Article 127) to keep the supporting documents for a period of 5 years from the date of completion of the Customs operations.

<Q> Do I need to keep the original documents or can I keep an electric copy?
<A> The authorized person who submits the declaration to Customs is required by commercial law to keep the original documents as received by them as stated in their deceleration to Customs.

<Q> I submit a large number of declarations to Customs, is there any way these declarations can be submitted directly to Customs via a B2B interface?
<A> Yes. Dubai Customs has developed a B2B interface available for eligible partners.

<Q> What is Bureau Service?
<A> The service provided to Personal Customers to submit the Declaration into Mirsal 2 to clear Personal Effects.

<Q> What are all the services available in the Bureau?
<A> The Bureau offers a variety of services including the submission of new declarations, registering individuals as a Personal Client, and the cancellation of declarations.

<Q> Is the process of registering a Personal Customer a separate one?
<A> No, the process of registering a Personal Customer is integrated within the process of submitting a new Declaration. Once registered, Personal Clients can use the same Client registration ID for all future Declarations.

<Q> What are the Documents required for Personal Customers registration?
<A> The documents required for Personal Client registration are a copy of a valid Passport and National ID (optional) for nationals. For foreigners, a copy of the Passport with a valid visa stamp and national ID (optional) are required.

<Q> What are the documents required for Declaration?
<A> The documents required for a Declaration include a detailed original invoice or a document reflecting the value of goods, a Bill of Lading, a Packing List (optional), a Certificate of Origin (optional), and a Permit from the competent authority (conditional).

<Q> Is Delivery Order required for Declaration clearance?
<A> Yes, a Delivery Order issued by the shipping Agent is required prior to submitting the Declaration.

<Q> On which value is the Duty calculated?
<A> The customs duty is calculated on the value of the imported goods plus freight, insurance, and other relevant charges until arrival at the port of destination.

<Q> What are the other documents required by Customs in order to prove the value of goods?
<A> The customs office may require all documents, contracts, correspondence, and other relevant documents to determine the value of goods.

<Q> Will Customs accept an Invoice written in a foreign language other than English?
<A> Yes, but the Administration may request an Arabic translation of the invoices and other documents if required.

<Q> Can a Personal Customer of any GCC states clear Customs Declaration in Dubai, if it is the first entry point?
<A> According to the Common Customs Law of the GCC States, all importers, including Personal Customers, should complete the Customs Clearances at the first entry point.

<Q> Is a Personal Customer eligible for duty exemption on Personal Effects and Household items?
<A> Yes, Personal Customers can be eligible for Duty exemption on Personal Effects and Household items if they meet certain conditions, such as being nationals residing abroad returning to the country, or foreigners moving to the country for the first time.

<Q> If personal effects are new items, what is the duty?
<A> The Customs Duty on new personal effects and household items is collected in accordance with the customs law provisions and tariff.

<Q> Is a permit from the competent authority required for restricted goods imported by a Personal Customer also?
<A> Yes, a permit or approval from the competent authority is required to clear a Declaration that includes any restricted goods.

<Q> Which are the modes of payments acceptable to Bureau for payment of Duty?
<A> The Bureau accepts payment of Duty via Cheques and Cash.

<Q> Can a Personal Client submit Declaration through a Broker?
<A> Yes, a Personal Customer can submit the Declaration through a Broker.

<Q> What is a cargo?
<A> Cargo refers to goods that are transported or to be transported. This includes all goods carried on any means of transportation such as ships, aircraft, or trucks, and is usually covered by a bill of lading, airway bill, or manifest.

<Q> What is a cargo transfer?
<A> A Cargo Transfer is the shipment of cargo from one location to another. This requires declaring a Cargo Transfer Request using the Mirsal-2 System of Dubai Customs. The cargo may be arriving from overseas and transferred to another location other than the port of arrival.

<Q> What is a cargo transfer request?
<A> A cargo transfer request is a declaration submitted by a declarant or his representative that describes the declared cargo and its quantity in detail, according to the provisions of the law.

<Q> What is a declarant?
<A> A declarant is a person who is authorized either by law or by an authority given by Customs to declare a Cargo Transfer request to Customs.

<Q> Who can declare a cargo transfer request?
<A> A Cargo Transfer Request is typically declared by Cargo Handlers (CH), also known as the Transferee. This could also be done by a representative of the Cargo Handlers, known as a Customs Broker.

<Q> What are the types of cargo transfer?
<A> There are five types of Cargo Transfers, each depending on the purpose of clearance. These include transfers from a Cargo Terminal Operator (CTO) to a Cargo Handler (CH) at the same or different locations, transfers from a CH to another CH at the same or different locations, and transfers from a CTO to another CTO at different locations.

<Q> What is a transferee?
<A> A transferee is a person or a business that receives the Cargo from the Transferor.

<Q> What is a transferor?
<A> A transferor is a person or a business that sends (releases) the Cargo to a Transferee.

<Q> Who is the CTO?
<A> A CTO, or Cargo Terminal Operator, is the operator who controls the area of the airport or wharf where cargo is loaded and unloaded from aircraft or ships, including land container depots.

<Q> Who is the CH?
<A> CH, or Cargo Handlers, are agents who are responsible for handling the cargo such as storage, consolidation, and delivery of consolidated cargo.

<Q> What is a cargo transfer number?
<A> A number generated by Customs to identify the Cargo Transfer Request, also known as “Declaration Number”.

<Q> What is a transferee premises (location)?
<A> Transferee Premises is the facility location of the Cargo Handler (CH) / Cargo Terminal Operator (CTO) where the cargo will be received for storage, consolidation and delivery of consolidated cargo.

<Q> What is customs duty?
<A> The term “customs taxes (duties) “means the amounts levied on the goods according to the provisions of this Law (Article 2(12) Common Customs Law of GCC States).

<Q> What is a transferor premises (location)?
<A> A Transferor Premises is the facility location of the CTO / CH from where the cargo is to be released to the Transferee.

<Q> What is the customs law?
<A> The rules and provisions governing customs work, and any other supplementing or amending rules or provisions, (Article 2(8) of Common Customs Law of the GCC States).

<Q> What are the types of transaction in declaring a cargo transfer request?
<A> There are three types of transactions for declaring a Cargo Transfer Request in the Mirsal2 System/Dubai Trade:
1. New Cargo Transfer Request: An initial transaction for declaring a request for Cargo Transfer, subject to Customs approval.
2. Amend Cargo Transfer Request: A request to amend an already submitted and cleared Cargo Transfer. Certain fields cannot be amended. Amendments may result in the collection or refund of duties or deposits, and all amendment requests are subject to Customs approval.
3. Cancel Cargo Transfer Request: A request to cancel an already cleared Cargo Transfer. Cancellation can initiate the refund of duty or deposits and collection of cancellation-related charges. All cancellation requests are subject to Customs approval.

<Q> What is a customs broker?
<A> A Customs broker is responsible for submitting the declaration and is aware of all the Customs procedures required to make declarations. They can submit all kinds of Cargo Transfer Requests, retain original documents for the period stipulated by the Customs, and perform other activities such as submitting Cargo Release, etc. They can be a Private Customs Broker (PCB) or a Sub Customs Broker (SCB).

<Q> Who is a PCB?
<A> A Private Customs Broker (PCB) is a person who represents the company for which they are employed (e.g., local trading company, Free Zone Company, Shipping Agent, Private Customs Warehouse Consignee, CH, CTO, etc.) to make declarations or Cargo Transfer Requests.

<Q> Who is an SCB?
<A> A Sub Customs Broker (SCB) is a person who represents the General Broking Company (GCB) and can submit declarations or Cargo Transfer Requests to Customs on behalf of various entities like local trading companies, Free Zone Companies, Shipping Agents, ATA agents, Walk-in Customers, CH, CTO, etc.

<Q> What is a GCB?
<A> A General Customs Broker (GCB) is a Customs broking company who employs Sub Customs Brokers (SCBs) to represent its business. They must get authorization from the trading entity to make declarations on their behalf and/or to use the trading company's Credit account or Standing Guarantee account. The responsibility for the account selection lies with the GCB, and Customs does not hold any responsibility for the usage of the account.

<Q> What is submitting cargo release?
<A> Submitting Cargo Release is an action performed against a cleared Cargo Transfer Request by a Transferor to inform Customs that the physical cargo has been released from their premises.

<Q> What is submitting cargo receipt?
<A> Submitting Cargo Receipt is an action performed against a cleared Cargo Transfer Request by a Transferee to inform Customs that the cargo has been physically received from the Transferor.

<Q> What is a document?
<A> A document is any medium designed to carry information and actually carrying a record of data entries. This includes magnetic tapes and disks, microfilms, etc. (according to the WCO General Annex - chapter 2)

<Q> Who can submit a cargo release?
<A> The submission of a Cargo Release through Mirsal-2/Dubai Trade is performed by a Transferor identified in the Cargo Transfer Request by providing the date the Cargo was released. This task cannot be performed by a representative of the Transferor.

<Q> Who can submit a cargo receipt?
<A> The submission of a Cargo Receipt through Mirsal-2/Dubai Trade is performed by a Transferee identified in the Cargo Transfer Request by providing the date the Cargo was received. This task cannot be performed by a representative of the Transferee.

<Q> What are the modes of payment to settle fees and charges for cargo transfer request?
<A> Standing Guarantee Account and Duty Credit Account are the mode of payments applicable for settling fees and charges for Cargo Transfer Request. Cash Payment and e‐Payment Facility are not applicable mode of payments for settling fees and charges.

<Q> What are the applicable fees and charges for cargo transfer requests?
<A> The following are list of applicable fees and charges for Cargo Transfer Requests:
1. Deposits
2. Registration Fees
3. Amendment Charges
4. Cancellation Charges
For Cancellation and Amendment of Cargo Transfer Request, a refund of duty / deposits may be applicable.

<Q> What is a deposit?
<A> A sum of money provisionally paid or title deeds, bearer bonds, etc, lodged as security for the payment of such duties, taxes or other sums as may become chargeable. (WCO General Annex ‐chapter 2)

<Q> What are the methods to follow‐up a cargo transfer request?
<A> There are 3 methods of tracking a Cargo Transfer Request in Mirsal‐2/Dubai Trade, these are:
1. Track Cargo Transfer – is used when the Cargo Transfer Request is in approval stage.
2. Search Cargo Transfer – is used when the Cargo Transfer has been cleared or approved by Customs.
3. Print Cargo Transfer – is used to print the official cleared Cargo Transfer Request to be used for moving and receiving the physical cargo.

<Q> What is master transport document number?
<A> Identification number of Master transport document such as Airway bill number, Sea Bill of lading number, Postal CP note number or Road Consignment Note number on which cargo is moving.

<Q> What is manifest registration number?
<A> Manifest Registration No is a Dubai Trade generated reference number on submission/registration of manifest through Dubai trade portal.

<Q> What is preceding clearance number?
<A> This is the previous Cargo Transfer No. which was used to move the cargo previously.

<Q> What is a customs location?
<A> Customs Location means that part of lands or sea.

<Q> What is a GCB?
<A> A General Customs Broker (GCB) is a Customs broking company who will have SCB’s to represent its business. General Customs Brokers should get authorization from the trading entity to make declarations on behalf of them and/or to use trading company's Credit account or Standing Guarantee account. The liability of the account selection is the responsibility of the GCB and Customs do not hold any responsibility on the usage of the account.

<Q> What documents do I have to bring for Inspection?
<A> Delivery Advice, Export BOE, Standard BoE and others as required.

<Q> Who will make the amendment to the declaration?
<A> The DUCAMZ staff will no longer amend the vehicle or enclosure items information. You can submit an amendment request from Mirsal2.

<Q> What are the penalties for providing wrong information?
<A> Please see the Custom Notices for information.

<Q> What information do I have to submit in declarations?
<A> Complete vehicle details and enclosure items.

<Q> Is there any Vehicle ID created in the new system?
<A> No, the Vehicle ID has been discontinued and it will not be created in Mirsal2. The DUCAMZ staff will not ask for Vehicle ID for declarations submitted through Mirsal2.

<Q> How will I know if the declaration is cleared or further action is required?
<A> Check the declaration status on Mirsal2.

<Q> How many Vehicles can be entered in each declaration type?
<A> Any number of vehicles in Transit In Declaration. However, Transit out or Import from FZ to local, for DUCAMZ there is a restriction of one vehicle per one declaration.

<Q> What are the required documents to generate VCC?
<A> Declaration copy shall suffice.

<Q> Vehicles can come only through FCL & FCL or it may come as general cargo and RoRo as well?
<A> No Restrictions.

<Q> How much the customs duty for this and is there any exemption?
<A> Duty on import is 5% ‐ For entering into DUCAMZ on Transit In Declaration there is no duty.

<Q> How often customs will decided whether inspection req. or not since it will not be 100% inspection?
<A> It Depends on Customs Decisions which will be guided by Risk Engine and EPG judgment.

<Q> Does pre clearance work for DUCAMZ or not yet?
<A> Yes.

<Q> Are all cargo channels allowed for DUCAMZ in M2?
<A> Yes.

<Q> “Vehicle ID” is no more required for subsequent transaction, but what about the declaration ref. number?
<A> It will be optional.

<Q> Can customer make “FZ Transit Out to Non Dubai FZ (Other Emirates and GCC)” and “FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market” online?
<A> Yes. But this will be rare.

<Q> Do DUCAMZ customers have to print GCC and Standard printouts always even if no inspections?
<A> GCC Print will be required for Inspections.

<Q> What is an acknowledgment?

<A> Acknowledgment is a process of recognizing a cleared declaration to determine if it is agreeable or acceptable to all parties involved in the declaration. This is required by Customs for selected Declaration Types to ensure the agreement of all parties, to avoid declarations without the knowledge or approval of the involved parties, and to identify the responsibility for duty liability and custody of goods at any point in time.

<Q> What are the kinds of acknowledgment?

<A> A declaration acknowledgment can be either accepted or declined by the Acknowledgment Owner identified in the declaration. Accepting the acknowledgment signifies that the declaration is agreeable to the Acknowledgment Owner, while declining it (with a provided reason) signifies the opposite. This process is carried out through the Mirsal-2 System/Dubai Trade using the Acknowledgment Facility.

<Q> What are the types of declaration subject for acknowledgment?

<A> The types of declarations that require acknowledgment depend on the declaration type, as shown in the table. For example, EX2 (Export from Local to Dubai FZ) requires acknowledgment from the Importer, while TR1 (Transfer of Cargo by Dubai based CW) requires acknowledgment from the Exporter.

<Q> Who is the declaration owner?
<A> The Declaration Owner is the party who declared the declaration or was declared by a representative on their behalf.

<Q> Who is the acknowledgment owner?
<A> The Acknowledgment Owner is a third-party company involved in a business transaction with the Declaration Owner. They are required to acknowledge the cleared declaration by either accepting or declining it.

<Q> What happens if declaration acknowledgment is declined?
<A> If the acknowledgment is declined, the Declaration Owner is required to amend or cancel the declaration, as it is not acceptable to the other party. Customs fees and charges for amendments and cancellation will still apply.

<Q> What are the notifications/reminders provided for acknowledgment?
<A> Notifications and reminders are sent to all parties involved requesting acknowledgment once the declaration is cleared by Customs. If acknowledgment is accepted or declined, a notification is sent to the Declaration Owner. If no action is taken after three reminders, the declaration is sent to Customs’ Exception Handling Group for further investigation.

<Q> Can the declaration owner amend or cancel the declaration when the declaration acknowledgment has been accepted?
<A> Yes, the Declaration Owner can amend or cancel the declaration even after the acknowledgment has been accepted. This may require a new acknowledgment from the Acknowledgment Owner.

<Q> Are there fees and charges for acknowledgment?
<A> There are currently no fees or charges for declaration acknowledgment, but penalties may be introduced in the future for not proceeding with acknowledgment. However, fees and charges for declaring the declaration still apply.

<Q> Is email address important in acknowledgment?
<A> Yes, it is important for all parties to have an email address for notifications and reminders. Business Profile and User Profiles should be updated to include a working email address to efficiently carry out and perform declaration acknowledgment.

<Q> Are there documents needed for acknowledgment?
<A> No documents are required for the acknowledgment process, but the details of the declaration can be referred to in the View Declaration of the Mirsal-2 System/Dubai Trade.

<Q> Can declaration acknowledgment be accomplished by a broker on behalf of the acknowledgment owner?
<A> Yes, a broker authorized to act on behalf of the Acknowledgment Owner can perform declaration acknowledgment.

<Q> What is a customs broker?
<A> A Customs broker submits the declaration and is aware of all the Customs procedures required to make declarations. They submit all kinds of declarations, retain original documents for the period stipulated by Customs, and perform other required activities such as declaration acknowledgment. A Customs Broker can be either a Private Customs Broker (PCB) or a Sub Customs Broker (SCB).

<Q> Who is a PCB ?
<A> A Private Customs Broker (PCB) is a person who represents the company for which they are employed (e.g., local trading company, Free Zone Company, Shipping Agent, Private Customs Warehouse Consignee, CH, CTO, etc.) to make declarations or acknowledgment a declaration.

<Q> Who is an SCB?
<A> A Sub Customs Broker (SCB) is a person who represents the General Broking Company (GCB) and can submit declarations or acknowledgment to Customs on behalf of entities such as local trading companies, Free Zone Companies, Shipping Agents, ATA agents, Walk-in Customers, CH, CTO, etc.

<Q> What is a document?
<A> Any medium designed to carry information and actually carrying a record of data entries, it includes magnetic tapes and disks, microfilms, etc. (WCO General Annex ‐ chapter 2)

<Q> How to follow-up an acknowledgment?
<A> Declaration Owner may track or follow‐up the status of the acknowledgment by using the Acknowledgment Facility in Mirsal‐2 System/Dubai Trade. Provide some information of the declaration to search for it and can view the Acknowledgment History.

<Q> Who is importer?
<A> An Importer is a Business/Company (within a Freezone/Customs Warehouse) which buys goods from other Business/Company (within a Freezone/Customs Warehouse). Also known as a Buyer.

<Q> Who is exporter?
<A> An Exporter is a Business/Company (within a Freezone/Customs Warehouse) which sells goods from other Business/Company (within a Freezone/Customs Warehouse). Also known as a Seller.

<Q> What is a free zone?
<A> The Free Zone is a part of the state’s territories in which commercial or industrial activities are exercised under the respective laws of that state. Any goods entering that zone are considered to be outside the customs zone and shall not be subject to the usual customs control and procedures. (Article 2(32) of Common Customs Law of the GCC States)

<Q> What is customs warehouse?
<A> Warehouse means the place or facility wherein the goods are deposited under supervision of the Administration free of Customs duties (taxes) according to the Provision of GCC Customs Law (Article 2(36) of Common Customs Law of the GCC States).

<Q> What documents do I have to bring for Inspection?
<A> Delivery Advice, Export BOE, Standard BoE and others as required.

<Q> Who will make the amendment to the declaration?
<A> The DUCAMZ staff will no longer amend the vehicle or enclosure items information. You can submit an amendment request from Mirsal2.

<Q> What are the penalties for providing wrong information?
<A> Please see the Custom Notices for information.

<Q> What information do I have to submit in declarations?
<A> Complete vehicle details and enclosure items.

<Q> Is there any Vehicle ID created in the new system?
<A> No, the Vehicle ID has been discontinued and it will not be created in Mirsal2. The DUCAMZ staff will not ask for Vehicle ID for declarations submitted through Mirsal2.

<Q> How will I know if the declaration is cleared or further action is required?
<A> Check the declaration status on Mirsal2.

<Q> How many Vehicles can be entered in each declaration type?
<A> Any number of vehicles in Transit In Declaration. However, Transit out or Import from FZ to local, for DUCAMZ there is a restriction of one vehicle per one declaration.

<Q> What are the required documents to generate VCC?
<A> Declaration copy shall suffice.

<Q> Vehicles can come only through FCL & FCL or it may come as general cargo and RoRo as well?
<A> No Restrictions.

<Q> How much the customs duty for this and is there any exemption?
<A> Duty on import is 5% ‐ For entering into DUCAMZ on Transit In Declaration there is no duty.

<Q> How often customs will decided whether inspection req. or not since it will not be 100% inspection?
<A> It Depends on Customs Decisions which will be guided by Risk Engine and EPG judgment.

<Q> Does pre clearance work for DUCAMZ or not yet?
<A> Yes.

<Q> Are all cargo channels allowed for DUCAMZ in M2?
<A> Yes.

<Q> “Vehicle ID” is no more required for subsequent transaction, but what about the declaration ref. number?
<A> It will be optional.

<Q> How is the Customs examination conducted?
<A> The examination of goods will be conducted outside the customs office at the expense of the owner of the goods and against the prescribed service charges.

<Q> What is the procedure for importing goods into Dubai?
<A> To import goods into Dubai, you must first obtain an import code from Dubai Customs. Then, submit a declaration through the Dubai Trade portal and provide all necessary documents. Once the declaration is approved and all fees are paid, the goods can be released.

<Q> What documents are required for importing goods into Dubai?
<A> The documents required for importing goods into Dubai include a commercial invoice, bill of lading or airway bill, packing list, certificate of origin, and any other relevant permits or licenses.

<Q> What is the procedure for exporting goods from Dubai?
<A> To export goods from Dubai, first obtain an export code from Dubai Customs. Then, submit a declaration through the Dubai Trade portal and provide all necessary documents. Once the declaration is approved and all fees are paid, the goods can be released for export.

<Q> What documents are required for exporting goods from Dubai?
<A> The documents required for exporting goods from Dubai include a commercial invoice, bill of lading or airway bill, packing list, certificate of origin, and any other relevant permits or licenses.

<Q> What are the customs duties for importing goods into Dubai?
<A> The customs duties for importing goods into Dubai vary depending on the type of goods and their country of origin. Most goods are subject to a 5% customs duty, but some goods may be exempt or subject to a different rate.

<Q> How do I pay customs duties in Dubai?
<A> Customs duties in Dubai can be paid through the Dubai Trade portal using a credit card or bank transfer. You can also pay in person at a Dubai Customs office using cash or a check.

<Q> What goods are exempt from customs duties in Dubai?
<A> Certain goods are exempt from customs duties in Dubai. These include diplomatic goods, military goods, personal effects and household items for individuals shifting their residence, and passenger goods within certain limits. Specific conditions and requirements apply to each category of exempt goods.

<Q> What are the conditions for duty exemption on personal effects and household items?
<A> Individuals can bring their personal effects and used household items into the country on duty exemption, provided they meet certain requirements. These include that the items are in used condition, the quantity is within the limit of furnishing a house, and the owner of the goods matches the name in the documents. For nationals, they must be returning to UAE after shifting their residence from abroad. For foreigners, they should be coming to UAE for the first time for residence.

<Q> What are the conditions for duty exemption on passenger goods?
<A> Passengers are eligible for duty exemption on accompanied goods, provided certain conditions are met. These include limits on the value of gift items, number of cigarettes and cigars, amount of tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and that the goods are personal belongings. Additionally, electronic goods and home appliances must be in a reasonable quantity. Age and frequency of reporting to customs office also apply for certain items.

<Q> What are the goods that are exempt from customs duties in Dubai?
<A> The following goods are exempt from customs duties in Dubai:
1-Diplomatic goods
2-Military goods
3-Personal effects and household items for individuals shifting their residence
4-Passenger goods within certain limits
5-Philanthropic and charitable goods
6-Commodities used by people with special needs
7-Returned goods
8-Temporarily exported goods
9-Industrial goods

<Q> What are the conditions for duty exemption on personal effects and household items?
<A> Individuals can bring their personal effects and used household items into the country on duty exemption, provided they meet certain requirements. These include that the items are in used condition, the quantity is within the limit of furnishing a house, and the owner of the goods matches the name in the documents. For nationals, they must be returning to UAE after shifting their residence from abroad. For foreigners, they should be coming to UAE for the first time for residence.

<Q> What are the conditions for duty exemption on returned goods?
<A> Duty exemption on returned goods can be claimed under certain conditions. If the goods are of National Origin, they must be returned within 3 years from the date of exportation, must be the same goods that were exported with the proof of their origin, and must be returned in the same state as they were exported. For Foreign Goods, they must be returned within a year from re-exportation, customs duty must have been paid during the original importation, and the duty or deposit must not have been refunded at the time of re-exportation. For Temporarily Exported Goods, customs duty is applicable only on the value added due to finishing or repair, and the goods must return within a year from re-exportation.

<Q> What are the steps involved in customs clearance?
<A> The customs clearance process involves the submission of a customs declaration by the importer or exporter, inspection and verification of goods and the declaration by the customs office, assessment and payment of customs duty and taxes, and the release of goods by the customs office.

<Q> What are the channels available for submitting customs declarations?
<A> Customs declarations can be submitted through Dubai Trade, Business to Government (B2G), and Customs Bureau Services.

<Q> Who are eligible to use the Bureau Services channel?
<A> Bureau Services can be used by Private Individuals, Professional Licensees, Government Entities, Non-Profit Organizations, Educational Institutes, and Diplomatic Bodies.

<Q> What are the different customs clearance centers in Dubai?
<A> Customs clearance centers in Dubai include Hamriya, Creek, Creek Entry, Hatta Border, Post Offices, and the Land Customs Office.

<Q> What are the different methods for customs clearance in Dubai?
<A> Methods for customs clearance in Dubai include online declaration, pre-arrival clearance, submission of documents, e-archival of customs declarations, and following customs procedures for different types of declarations and importation.

<Q> What are the documents required for customs clearance in Dubai?
<A> Documents required for customs clearance in Dubai can include a commercial invoice, bill of lading or airway bill, packing list, certificate of origin, and other relevant permits or licenses.

<Q> What are the time limits for submitting documents for customs clearance in Dubai?
<A> Documents for customs clearance in Dubai must be submitted within 14 days from the date of processing the declaration. Late submission results in a daily fine of AED 50, for a maximum of 90 days. Further penalties may apply if documents are not submitted within this period.

<Q> What are the offices for documents submission in Dubai?
<A> Document submission offices in Dubai are designated based on the cargo channel and Customs locations. More details can be found in Appendix J –Documents Submittal.

<Q> What is e-Archival of customs declarations?
<A> E-Archival of customs declarations is a system used by Dubai Customs to store original copies of customs declarations and their attachments. Clients can request a softcopy of their Customs Declarations and their attachments through the e-Archive system.

<Q> What are the customs procedures and types of declarations?
<A> While submitting for clearance, the declarant must specify the regime type of the Declaration. The regime types include Import, Export, Transit, Temporary Admission, and Transfer.

<Q> What are the different declaration types associated with importation?
<A> The different declaration types associated with importation include Import to Local from ROW, Import to Local from FZ, Import to Local from CW, Import to Local from GCC, Import for Re-Export to Local from ROW, Import for Re-Export to Local from FZ, Import for Re-Export to Local from CW, Import to CW from ROW, Import to CW from FZ, Import to CW  from Local (after Temporary Admission), and Import after Temporary Admission.

<Q> What are the different declaration types associated with importation from Rest of World (ROW)?
<A> The different declaration types associated with importation from ROW are:
1. Import to Local from ROW
2. Import for Re-Export to Local from ROW

<Q> What are the documents required for importation from ROW?
<A> The required documents for importation from ROW include:
1. Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
2. Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
3. Commercial Invoice
4. Certificate of Origin
5. Packing List
6. Delivery Order (for Sea)
7. Permits, if applicable

<Q> What are the requirements for importation from Free Zone (FZ)?
<A> The requirements for importation from FZ are:
1. Declaration submission by a registered local Importer or authorized Customs Broker
2. Required Documents:
  a. Delivery Advice
  b. Invoice
  c. Packing List
  d. Permit for Restricted Goods (if any) from a competent authority

<Q> What are the requirements for importation from Customs Warehouse (CW)?
<A> The requirements for importation from CW are:
1. Declaration submission by the Customs Warehouse Licensee or a registered local Importer being the owner of the goods
2. Required Documents:
  a. Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the requirements for importation from GCC (Statistical Import)?
<A> The requirements for importation from GCC (Statistical Import) are:
1. Clearance of Declaration type “Import to Local from GCC”
2. Required Documents:
  a. Delivery Order (for Sea Channel)
  b. Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
  c. Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
  d. Land Manifest/Truck way bill for Land Channel
  e. Commercial Invoice
  f. Packing List
  g. Statistical Export Bill cleared from an exporting country of GCC with the endorsement of “Makasa Claim Number (MCN)” or “Makasa Stamp” in the case of duty-paid goods are imported

<Q> What are the requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from ROW?
<A> The requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from ROW are:
1. Clearance of Declaration type “Import for Re Export to Local from ROW”
2. Limited to those with a value higher than AED 20000, except for vehicles
3. Required Documents:
  a. Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air Channel
  b. Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
  c. Commercial Invoice
  d. Certificate of Origin
  e. Packing List
  f. Delivery Order

<Q> What are the requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from FZ?
<A> The requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from FZ are:
1. Customs duties secured by Standing Bank Guarantee or deposit
2. Declaration submission by a registered local Importer or authorized Customs Broker
3. Required Documents:
  a. Delivery Advice
  b. Invoice
  c. Packing List
  d. Permit for Restricted Goods (if any) from competent authority

<Q> What are the requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from CW?
<A> The requirements for importation for Re-Export to Local from CW are:
1. Customs duties secured by Standing Bank Guarantee or Deposit
2. Declaration submission by the Customs Warehouse Licensee or a registered local Importer being the owner of the goods
3. Required Documents:
  a. Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the different declaration types associated with exportation from Local to ROW?
<A> The different declaration types associated with exportation from Local to ROW are:
1. Export from Local to ROW
2. Re Export to ROW (after import for re-export)

<Q> What are the documents required for exportation from Local to ROW?
<A> The required documents for exportation from Local to ROW include:
1. Export Invoice
2. Packing List
3. Export Permit from a controlling authority (if applicable to restricted exports)

<Q> What are the requirements for exportation from Local to Dubai FZ?
<A> The requirements for exportation from Local to Dubai FZ are:
1. Declaration submission by the exporter or their broker
2. Acknowledgement by the receiving Free Zone client through the service available on Dubai Trade
3. Required Documents:
  a. Export Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the requirements for exportation from Local to GCC (statistical export)?
<A> The requirements for exportation from Local to GCC (statistical export) are:
1. Ability to export previously imported foreign goods to another GCC state on a statistical Export Declaration
2. Avoidance of repeated Duty payment provided the statistical export declaration carries MAKAS stamp
3. Required Documents:
  a. Export Invoice
  b. Packing List
  c. Copy of Import Declaration (for Makasa Process)

<Q> What are the requirements for exportation from CW to ROW?
<A> The requirements for exportation from CW to ROW are:
1. Ability to export goods admitted into a Customs Warehouse to any ROW country
2. Completion of the Export Customs procedure through the mentioned Declaration Type
3. Required Documents:
  a. Export Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the requirements for exportation from CW to FZ?
<A> The requirements for exportation from CW to FZ are:
1. Ability to export foreign goods from a Customs Warehouse to a Free Zone in Dubai, considering export restrictions
2. Completion of the required Customs Procedure to admit the goods into Free zone
3. Required Documents:
  a. Export Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the requirements for Re Export to ROW (after import for re-export)?
<A> The requirements for Re Export to ROW (after import for re-export) are:
1. Requirement of Customs inspection and exit certification to claim the refund of security deposit or guarantee paid against the Import for Re-Export Declaration
2. Possibility to claim back the guarantee or deposit only if the imported goods have been exported within six months from the date of Import for Re-Export Declaration
3. Required Documents:
  a. Export Invoice
  b. Packing List

<Q> What are the different declaration types associated with transit?
<A> The different declaration types associated with transit are:
1. Transit (ROW to ROW)
2. FZ Transit In
3. FZ Transit Out
4. FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC Local Market
5. FZ Transit between Dubai based FZ

<Q> What are the documents required for transit?
<A> The required documents for transit include:
1. Copy of Transport Document
2. Delivery order

<Q> What are the requirements for FZ Transit In?
<A> The requirements for FZ Transit In are:
1. Foreign goods from any country can be brought into the free zones without being subject to customs duties or taxes
2. The owner of the goods in the documents must be a Free Zone Licensee
3. Required Documents:
  a. Master Airway Bill/House Airway Bill for Air channel
  b. Master Bill Of Lading/House Bill Of Lading for Sea Channel
  c. Commercial Invoice
  d. Certificate of Origin

<Q> Document Offices for ATA Carnet Clearance
<A> Offices for ATA Clearance
1 Cargo Village customs Centre
2 Jebel Ali Customs Centre
3 Dubai International Airport Customs Centre
4 Al Maktoum International Airport Customs Centre
5 Hatta Customs Center
6 Dubai Airport Terminal1- Customs Center
7 Dubai Airport Terminal2- Customs Center
8 Dubai Airport Terminal3- Customs Center
9 Dubai Airport Free Zone Customs Center

<Q> What are the requirements for submission of manifest?
<A> The requirements for submission of manifest are:
The manifest must be submitted by the shipmaster or Cargo Handler within (36) hours from the time the ship enters the seaport, excluding the official holidays.
Any amendment or cancellation on the manifest submitted after above period shall be against a service charge of AED 5 for each bill of lading.

<Q> What is e-Freight Between Airports?
<A> e-Freight Between Airports is a facility that allows for the exchange of freight and trade documents between airports. This facility is available only between the airports of the countries where e-Freight initiative is implemented and logistically managed by approved air cargo companies. Only licensed air cargo companies registered in UAE and affiliated to e-Freight initiative shall be eligible to avail this service.

<Q> What are the requirements for using the Electronic Airway Bill facility?
<A> The requirements for using the Electronic Airway Bill facility are:
Cargo Handling Agents or Carriers must use the facility of Electronic Data Interchange for transferring the Airway Bill Information to Customs.
The Information must include all the data available in the original Airway Bill.
A copy of the Airway Bill must be presented as a part of submittal of Documents in accordance with the provision of Customs Notice7- of 2010.

<Q> What are the requirements for transshipment cargo?
<A> The requirements for transshipment cargo are:
Any shipment may be transshipped only under supervision of the customs office.
The Shipping Agents/ Cargo Handler must submit the load list within five business days from the date of Manifest submission for the purpose of reconciling the manifests of transshipped cargo.

<Q> What are the requirements for submitting a courier declaration?
<A> The requirements for submitting a courier declaration are:
Courier companies shall submit Customs Declarations through Mirsal2-system for all types of shipments regardless to their value.
Customs Declarations for courier goods whose value is AED 1000 and below shall be submitted in the following types of declarations:
Courier Import Declaration.
Courier Export Declaration.
Courier Transit Declaration

<Q> What are the requirements for submitting a claim for refund?
<A> The requirements for submitting a claim for refund are:
The claims for refund of Deposit or releasing the Guarantee can be submitted online through Dubai Trade portal.
The period in which a claim can be submitted shall be varying depending on the type of Deposits.

<Q> What are the requirements for settlement of declaration (non-remittance) on direct export from FZ of same customs office?
<A> The requirements for settlement of declaration (non-remittance) on direct export from FZ of same customs office are:
Goods admitted into a free zone may be exported from the customs offices of the same Free zones without presenting a cash or bank guarantee for clearance of Customs Declarations.
The goods must be re-exported within 30 days from the date of lodgment of Declaration.
For the settlement of the customs procedure, the Declarant must submit a copy of FZ Transit-out Declaration and a Certificate of Exit/Entry, duly signed and stamped by the competent authority to the Customs as Proof of Export from the same port attached to the exporting FZ.

<Q> What are the requirements for Automated Transfer of Customs Duty (ATCD)?
<A> The requirements for Automated Transfer of Customs Duty (ATCD) are:
If the Exporter is different from the original Importer, then the copy of the Import Bill shall be required.
The Import Bill Reference number in the system must be a valid number. An option to amend the reference number in Export Bill is provided.
The system will calculate only the exact duty payable to the GCC Country.
The System will print a Due Number on Statistical Declaration. Currently this services is provided at the Offices of Customs Bureau Services
If the original Declaration was cleared as Import for Re-Export or Duty Deposit, then applicable duty must be paid prior to obtaining the Due Number
If the goods with destination to a GCC state are not imported directly by a GCC Importer, Customs Inspection and affixing customs seal shall be required. For new or used vehicles under HS Heading Nos. 8702 and 8703, the Due number shall be granted only if the vehicles are moved between GCC states within the period of 2 years from the date of Customs Duty Payment.

<Q> What is post clearance audit?
<A> Post clearance audit is a process by which Customs verifies the accuracy of the information submitted by importers and exporters. This process is conducted after the goods have been cleared by Customs.

<Q> What are the requirements for retaining documents related to Customs declaration?
<A> The documents related to Customs declaration must be retained for a period of 5 years from the date of clearance. Customs may demand all the Declaration related documents such as contracts, correspondence and other relevant documents without having to accept all that stated in the Declaration or in the Invoices. However, the documents related to the Free zone Customs Declaration shall be required to retain until the economic operations are being carried out in free zones.

<Q> What is Customs audit?
<A> Customs audit is a process by which Customs verifies the accuracy of the information submitted by importers and exporters. This process is conducted by Customs officials who review the records and documentation of the importer or exporter.

<Q> How can I protect my intellectual property rights (IPR)?
<A> You can protect your IPR by registering your trademarks and patents with Dubai Customs. You can also file a complaint with Dubai Customs if you believe that your IPR has been infringed.

<Q> What is a landing certificate?
<A> A landing certificate is a document that proves that goods have been imported into the country. This document is often required by exporters and other authorities to verify that the goods have been imported.

<Q> What is a vehicle clearance certificate (VCC)?
<A> A vehicle clearance certificate is a document that is required to register a vehicle in the country. This document is issued by Dubai Customs and proves that the vehicle has been cleared by Customs.

<Q> How can I request a statistical report?
<A> You can request a statistical report by submitting a request in a prescribed form to Dubai Customs. The request must be signed and stamped by the company and must include the applicable fees.

<Q> What are the rules for storing passenger goods in the airport?
<A> Passengers can store their goods in Customs stores at any of Dubai airports for a period of more than 24 hours. The maximum period of storage is three months from the date of storage. Dubai Customs has the right to sell goods in public auction if they are not taken back within this period.

<Q> What are the rules for selling goods by public auction?
<A> Dubai Customs has the right to sell goods by public auction in the following cases:
Seized perishable goods Goods paced in Public and Private Customs Warehouses after the expiry of their permitted storages period Un-Cleared Goods that exist in the Yards or Wharves Unclaimed Goods which are left behind at the Customs Office or Customs Warehouse
Confiscated means of Transport
The permitted storage periods for the various types of goods are:
Three months for FCL/General/Bulk Cargo, Vehicle and other RoadMoving Equipment arriving by Sea, all Goods arriving by Air and Land.
One month for the FCL Refrigerated and Dangerous Cargo Three months for goods deposited in the Customs Store by the passengers.
Customs shall announce the public auction and publish the list of the goods for sale in newspapers.

<Q> What are the Customs Declaration Fees?
<A> The Customs Declaration Fees are as follows:
- Bill Of Entry (Declaration)Types Dutiable Non-Dutiable
- Export from CW to FZ 100 100
- Export from CW to ROW 100 100
- Export from Local to FZ 100 100
- Export from Local to ROW 100 100
- Export Statistical Declaration 50 50
- FZ Transit Between Dubai based FZ 80 80
- FZ Transit In 80 80
- FZ Transit In from GCC and other Emirates FZ and GCC 80 80
- Local Market FZ Transit Out 80 80
- Import for Re Export to Local from CW 100 100
- Import for Re Export to Local from FZ 100 100
- Import for Re Export to Local from ROW 100 100
- Import Statistical Declaration 70 80
- Import to CW from FZ 80 80
- Import to CW from Local (after temporary admission) 80 80
- Import to CW from ROW 80 80
- Import to Local from CW 70 80
- Import to Local from FZ 70 80
- Import to Local from ROW 70 80
- Re Export to FZ (after Import for Re Export) 100 100
- Re Export to ROW (after import for re-export) 100 100
- Return to FZ after Temporary Admission 100 100
- Return to ROW after Temporary Admission 100 100
- Temporary Admission from CW to Local 100 100
- Temporary Admission from FZ to Local 100 100
- Temporary Admission from ROW to Local 100 100
- Temporary Export from Local to FZ 100 100
- Temporary Export from Local to ROW 100 100
- Transfer of Cargo by Dubai based CW	80	80 
- Transfer within a FZ	80	80 
- Transit (ROW to ROW)	50	15

<Q> What are the Other Customs Services Fees?
<A> The Other Customs Services’ Fees are as follows:
1.	e-Revenue Receipt Type Amount
2.	Certificate Of Arrival 100
3.	Certificate Of Discharge 100
4.	Cheque Installment for Company- Per Cheque (From 1 to 4) 150
5.	Cheque Installment for Company- Per Cheque (From 5 to 12) 300
6.	Cheque Installment for Person- Per Cheque (From 1 to 4) 50
7.	Cheque Installment for Person- Per Cheque (From 5 to 12) 75
8.	Common Customs Law Book of GCC 50
9.	Customs Audit Fee at client’s request 3000
10.	Customs Declaration Amendment Fee 25
11.	Customs Declaration Cancellation Fee 25
12.	Customs Ware House Agreement Fee 25,000
13.	Customs Warehouse License Fee 2000
14.	DUCAMZ -Vehicle Exit Certificate 30
15.	DUCAMZ-Delivery Advice & Valuation Report On Vehicle 200
16.	Duplicate Copy Fee 100
17.	E-Clearance–Penalty For Late Submission Of Docs 50
18.	Exit /Entry Permit on Goods through Customs Gate 20
19.	Exit /Entry Seal Charge 20
20.	Export Manifest Charge (Sea Cargo) 20
21.	Extra Manifest Charges 10
22.	Gate Pass Charges 20
23.	Grievance Application Fee 200
24.	HS Code Charges 25
25.	Inspection Charge 150
26.	Inspection Seal Charges 20
27.	Israeli Boycott Stamp 10
28.	Kimberly Certificate Process Charges-DMCC 30
29.	Knowledge Payable To HH The Ruler›s Court 20
30.	Land Cargo Manifest 40
31.	Loading & Unloading from Dry Port ( Japanese Cars) 100
32.	Loading & Unloading from Dry Port (American Cars) 120
33.	Manifest Amendment 100
34.	Mirsal 2 - Fines 500
35.	Monthly Statement Of Account 50
36.	Non Liability Certificate 100
37.	Number Plate issued for Vehicles on Temporary Admission 20
38.	Nursery Collection Fees 500
39.	Photocopy Charge for Customs Bill 10
40.	Postponement Of PDC for Company per Cheque 200
<END>
